World Vision USA Building a better world for children MY BASKET (0) SIGN IN Our Impact Our Impact Global Map Clean Water Disaster Relief Economic Development Education Food &amp; Agriculture Health U.S. Work Child Protection Country Profiles Faith In Action Our Impact Sponsor a Child Sponsor a Child How Sponsorship Works Sponsor a Child Ways to Give Ways to Give Gift Catalog Matching Gifts Where Most Needed Corporate Giving Meet Basic Needs Planned Giving Fund a Micro Loan Ways to Give Get Involved Get Involved Explore dozens of opportunities! Participate Advocate Fundraise Volunteer Run Tutor Knit Build Kits Churches Youth Families Corporations Teams Explore Opportunities View Events Get Involved About Us About Us Who We Are Visitor Center How We Work Request a Speaker Leadership Press Center Financial Accountability Publications &amp; Resources Careers &amp; Internships About Us My World Vision My World Vision My World Vision Sign In My Sponsored Children My Giving Account About My World Vision My World Vision &gt; Our Blog&gt; Tag Archives: Typhoon Haiyan Tag Archives: Typhoon Haiyan The Apple of my eye Posted on January 08, 2014 by Annila Harris in Disaster Relief Sponsored child Apple takes care of her baby sister, Roalyn. Apple&apos;s family is one of many affected by Typhoon Haiyan. Their home was damaged by the typhoon. (©2013 Annila Harris/World Vision) Today marks two months since Typhoon Haiyan made landfall in the Philippines. After the storm, World Vision communicator Annila Harris visited survivors and met sponsored child Apple, whose family is benefiting from World Vision relief supplies. The way this little girl cared for her baby sister, Roalyn, taught Annila that even when a disaster takes away almost everything, the most important thing in life is still family. Read More No comments Aid worker’s blog: Each other’s miracle Posted on January 06, 2014 by Florence Joy Malyuo in Disaster Relief Even after Typhoon Haiyan totally destroyed their house, the family of sponsored child Juliana remains grateful that they are alive. (©2013 Florence Joy Maluyo/World Vision) Wednesday marks two months since Typhoon Haiyan made landfall in the Philippines, causing immense devastation and loss of life. World Vision quickly mobilized more than 200 local staff members to help reach almost 400,000 survivors with relief operations. Today, Florence, one of our team members on the ground, reflects on the past two months and the amazing love and hope she has felt from around the world as we all became each other’s miracle. Read More No comments Top five ways in 2013 to give Posted on December 26, 2013 by Matthew Brennan in Child Sponsorship Ou Sypha, 16, reads the birthday card he received from his sponsor to his friends. (Photo: ©2013 Sopheak Kong/World Vision) 2013 has been an amazing year (but maybe I’m biased; it was my first year with World Vision!) From responding to natural disasters and refugee crises to bringing clean water to a new person every 30 seconds, we’ve been doing great work around the world this year, and we look forward to continuing this work in 2014. You can help! Are you considering making one more tax-deductible donation before 2013 is over? Here are five categories that have been important in 2013 — to us, to our donors, and to the children we’re serving. Make your choice today! Read More No comments Memories of Tacloban Posted on November 26, 2013 by Chris Weeks in Disaster Relief World Vision staff member Chris Weeks with Leo Quejada, Jr. in Tacloban. &quot;Families we met, while still grieving, are mustering strength to rebuild their lives.&quot; (Photo: 2013 Crislyn Felisilda/World Vision) Chris Weeks, from World Vision United Kingdom, describes his first experience of the devastated city of Tacloban in the Philippines. Now two weeks after the storm hit, relief efforts are well underway and reaching the survivors that need them while the people of Tacloban are finding the strength to begin rebuilding their city. Read More No comments We&apos;re cheap, and that&apos;s good Posted on November 22, 2013 by Matthew Brennan in Disaster Relief Families affected by Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines receive Food Kits from World Vision. Each kit provides food for a family for seven days. (Photo: 2013 Jon Warren/World Vision) One of World Vision’s primary responses to disasters like Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines is the distribution of Family Food Kits and Hygiene Kits to survivors. On our Facebook page this week, we posted photos of the contents of these kits – but purchased here in the USA – and asked our followers to guess how much the items would cost. That price versus the price of each World Vision Kit might surprise you! Read More 2 comments [Video] Rose&apos;s Planet Earth Posted on November 21, 2013 by Matthew Brennan in Disaster Relief The Batican family stands among the rubble that was their home until coconut trees fell on it during Typhoon Haiyan in Ormoc, Philippines. Son Johpett Batican, 14, (blue shirt and glasses) is a World Vision sponsored child. (Photo: 2013 Jon Warren/World Vision) Less than two weeks ago, for the people of the central islands of the Philippines, this beautiful planet turned harsh and scary. Now, the survivors of Typhoon Haiyan look ahead toward recovery with hope. Read More No comments [Photoblog] Smiles of relief Posted on November 18, 2013 by Matthew Brennan in Disaster Relief The promise of food for the next 15 days makes for happy children at a World Vision food distribution to Typhoon Haiyan victims in the Philippines. (Photo: 2013 Jon Warren/World Vision) On Thursday morning, World Vision completed a well-organized and calm distribution of food and hygiene kits in northern Cebu, benefiting 780 families, nearly 4,000 people. This series of photos comes directly from our team on the ground in the Philippines, showing the smiles that this first distribution of relief supplies brought to the waiting survivors of Typhoon Haiyan. Read More No comments Why did you bring me here, Lord? Posted on November 15, 2013 by Mikhaela De Leon in Faith in Action World Vision completed a well-organized and calm distribution of food and hygiene kits in northern Cebu yesterday, benefiting 780 families – nearly 4,000 people. (Photo: 2013 Jon Warren/World Vision) An aid worker&apos;s diary: today, Mikhaela De Leon -- media engagement officer for World Vision Philippines -- reflects on her experience of Typhoon Haiyan and why God brought her to Tacloban on that day. Read More No comments Voice of survivors: &quot;I was shivering and looking at flying roofs&quot; Posted on November 14, 2013 by Lanelyn Carillo in Disaster Relief John, 4, hid first in his grandmother&apos;s house. Then he and his parents ran to the nearest village hall after Haiyan was tearing the house apart. (Photo: Lanelyn Carillo/World Vision) In the devastating wake of Typhoon Haiyan (locally named Yolanda), a small table in a cramped village hall serves as baby Patrick’s new home. Curled in a corner, baby Patrick is in a deep sleep, unaware of what just happened in his hometown. Read More No comments Recovering childhood in a safe space Posted on November 13, 2013 by Jay Mark Mijares in Disaster Relief Chakkit, 6, came to the Child-Friendly Space dripping wet from swimming in the flood waters. He said, &quot;I want to join and play games.&quot; Dry shirts were given to participants as most children came wearing wet clothes. (Photo: ©2013 Jay Mark Mijares/World Vision) When Teerasak&apos;s home in Thailand flooded, his world was turned upside-down. Now, at a World Vision Child-Friendly Space, he and 40 other children have found a place where they can learn, play, talk about their experiences, and simply be kids again. Read More 5 comments Subscribe Stay up-to-date with all of our latest posts * Email Subscribe RSS Feed Bloglovin&apos; Feedly Featured Posts Rwanda 20 years: Why I was afraid All in: A single gift that changed a life What Disney’s Frozen teaches us about childhood Rwanda 20 years: The story in the corner Protection through pierced ears in Uganda Dirty water: More deadly than war World Poetry Day: “Childhood Lost” by Propaganda The children of Syria speak as year four begins What should I do for Lent? Categories Advocacy Causes Child Protection Child Sponsorship Clean Water Conversations Disaster Relief Education Faith in Action Food &amp; Agriculture Gift Catalog Health Microfinance Partnerships Stories U.S. Programs Become a Fan About Us About Our Blog Blog Resources Our Authors Archives 2014 April (4) March (13) February (13) January (14) 2013 December (27) November (18) October (19) September (20) August (21) July (20) June (24) May (24) April (19) March (23) February (19) January (14) 2012 December (27) November (26) October (19) September (20) August (30) July (17) June (14) May (21) April (27) March (25) February (31) January (22) 2011 December (31) November (21) October (21) September (20) August (31) July (23) June (21) May (19) April (20) March (24) February (16) January (9) About Us Who We Are How We Work Financial Accountability Our Faith in Action Careers &amp; Internships Our Impact Interactive Map U.S. Work Child Protection Clean Water Disaster Relief Economic Development Education Food &amp; Agriculture Health Faith in Action How You Can Help Child Sponsorship Monthly Giving One-Time Donation Meet Specific Needs Get Involved Connect With Us Contact Us Phone: 1-888-511-6548 Blog Navigate Site Map Mobile Site Change Country/Region World Vision International 한국어 中文 World Vision P.O. Box 9716 Federal Way, WA 98063 Evangelical Council for Financial Accountability Better Business Bureau Charity Navigator World Vision Inc. is a registered 501(c)3 nonprofit organization. All donations are tax deductible in full or in part. Security | UPDATED Privacy Policy | Terms of Use © 2014 World Vision, Inc. All rights reserved. Financial Accountability An Organization You Can Trust In 2013, 83 percent of World Vision&apos;s total operating expenses were used for programs that benefit children, families, and communities in need. Learn more &gt; 83% programs 12% fundraising 5% management &amp; general Every dollar donated becomes $1.15 in impact to children and communities worldwide. How?  
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies. However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy. News News News in Pictures Spotlights TrustLaw Independent Journalism Services Jobs Market About the Foundation View full desktop version Latest Top U.S. lawmaker: intelligence top priority in defense bill Stephen Colbert will be next host of &apos;The Late Show&apos; Egyptian approves draft law barring challenges to contracts Colbert to replace Letterman on &apos;The Late Show&apos; U.S. House passes Ryan Republican budget with deep spending cuts Super typhoon Haiyan wreaks havoc in Philippines Updated: Sun, 9 Feb 2014 Building back better after devastating Typhoon Haiyan Healing Philippines child typhoon survivors through art By Thin Lei Win | Fri, 24 Jan 2014 Haiyan survivors worry over resettlement sites, homes, jobs By Thin Lei Win | Wed, 22 Jan 2014 Philippines mulls disaster insurance for local governments By Imelda V. Abano | Wed, 22 Jan 2014 Philippines urged to climate-proof cities, coastal areas By Imelda V. Abano | Wed, 22 Jan 2014 Two months after Haiyan, funding for shelter urgently needed By Thin Lei Win | Tue, 7 Jan 2014 A New Year&apos;s resolution for Typhoon Haiyan survivors By Thin Lei Win | Tue, 24 Dec 2013 Philippine typhoon survivors struggle to salvage Christmas By Reuters | Tue, 24 Dec 2013 Aid agencies launch $791 mln plan to help Haiyan survivors By Thin Lei Win | Mon, 16 Dec 2013 For Haiyan survivors, Christmas brings hope amid the rubble By Reuters | Mon, 16 Dec 2013 Philippines still in ruins one month after Haiyan By Reuters | Sun, 8 Dec 2013 A landscape of despair and loss in the Philippines By Reuters | Sat, 7 Dec 2013 Schools reopen in typhoon hit central Philippines By Reuters | Sat, 7 Dec 2013 Agencies stretched thin across multiple Philippines crises By Thin Lei Win | Fri, 29 Nov 2013 Post-typhoon Philippines urgently needs strong new housing By Thin Lei Win | Wed, 27 Nov 2013 Private sector response to Haiyan - sign of things to come? By Thin Lei Win | Wed, 27 Nov 2013 Philippines&apos; rebuilding may cost more, last longer than Aceh By Reuters | Thu, 28 Nov 2013 Medical charity: don’t let Philippines become new Haiti By Karrie Kehoe | Tue, 26 Nov 2013 Philippine Senate approves $2.28 bln reconstruction budget By Reuters | Tue, 26 Nov 2013 UN asks for urgent help for Philippine farmers after typhoon By Reuters | Wed, 27 Nov 2013 Maoist rebels extend truce in Philippine disaster areas By Reuters | Sun, 24 Nov 2013 Do airdrops of aid reach the neediest - or just the fittest? By Alisa Tang | Tue, 26 Nov 2013 World Bank raises Philippine aid package to almost $1 bln By Reuters | Sat, 23 Nov 2013 Philippines &apos;more and more vulnerable&apos; to disasters - expert By Imelda V. Abano | Sat, 23 Nov 2013 Philippine typhoon toll rises to record 5,209 - official By Reuters | Fri, 22 Nov 2013   Children hold signs asking for help and food along the highway, after Typhoon Haiyan hit Tabogon townReuters Residents clear the road of a fallen electric post after Typhoon Haiyan hit Daanbantayan townReuters Residents hang clothes on wires from a fallen electric post after super Typhoon Haiyan hit Daanbantayan townReuters A man carries water as he walks on a flooded street during nightfall after the Super typhoon Haiyan battered Tacloban city in central PhilippinesReuters A family looks out of a destroyed window in their home after the Super typhoon Haiyan battered Tacloban city in central PhilippinesReuters Residents rush to get food packs during a relief distribution after super typhoon Haiyan hit Iloilo provinceReuters   SLIDESHOW Children hold signs asking for help and food along the highway, after Typhoon Haiyan hit Tabogon town Residents clear the road of a fallen electric post after Typhoon Haiyan hit Daanbantayan town Residents hang clothes on wires from a fallen electric post after super Typhoon Haiyan hit Daanbantayan town A man carries water as he walks on a flooded street during nightfall after the Super typhoon Haiyan battered ... A family looks out of a destroyed window in their home after the Super typhoon Haiyan battered Tacloban city in ... Residents rush to get food packs during a relief distribution after super typhoon Haiyan hit Iloilo province MORE CONTENT UK typhoon appeal helps more than 500,000 survivors - DEC Doctors race to fight preventable tragedies in Philippines Don&apos;t resort to rapid mass burials of Philippine dead, ICRC ... Healthcare slowly restored in storm-hit Guiuan U.N. disaster chief stresses long-term needs for Philippines Five disaster myths Dramatic U.S. humanitarian effort in Philippines Survivors in Philippines scarred by the typhoon Philippines&apos; Aquino &quot;tempted to despair&quot; at typhoon toll Generators to light streets of Philippine typhoon zone GRAPHIC: Super typhoon Haiyan death toll Storm-hit Philippines faces risk of diarrhoea, tetanus -MSF Aid flows to Philippine typhoon survivors, struggles remain Praying in ruined churches, Filipinos face huge rebuilding Evacuated Filipino storm survivors face uncertain future Tacloban devastated, but not cowed, by super storm What challenges does Typhoon Haiyan pose for aid agencies? Q+A: Aid agencies on Typhoon Haiyan challenges Hero to zero? Philippine president feels typhoon backlash Search for missing family in Tacloban Tacloban typhoon damage &quot;worse than World War II&quot;-mayor Desperate Philippine survivors loot, dig up water pipes Monster typhoon exposes an ill-prepared Philippines Philippine forensic workers begin identifying victims INFOGRAPHIC: Super typhoon Haiyan&apos;s death toll INFOGRAPHIC: Aid for the Philippines Heartbreak across the Philippines Let&apos;s help the Philippines better than Haiti Philippine death toll to rise as rescuers reach remote areas Philippines typhoon relief effort must broaden its focus Philippines urges loss and damage progress at climate talks Philippines storm underscores need for bold climate action Aid workers struggling to reach Philippine typhoon survivors Survivors &quot;walk like zombies&quot; after typhoon hits Impact of typhoon Haiyan could rival Haiti quake - IOM Aid agency round-up: Emergency response to Typhoon Haiyan INFOGRAPHIC: Intl pledges and aid for the Philippines INFOGRAPHIC: Population affected by typhoon Haiyan When words save lives: &quot;storm tsunami&quot; vs. &quot;storm surge&quot; Ebola outbreak in West Africa Skoll World Forum on Social Entrepreneurship 2014 GENOCIDE &amp; JUSTICE: Rwanda 20 years on Loss and damage Climate change and cities 2014 IPCC report: Worsening climate impacts Domestic violence LGBT rights Green transport Terms and Conditions Privacy and Cookies Acceptable Use Policy Contact Us Trust Principles Accessibility RSS Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Newsletters Turn off mobile site switching Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139) Copyright © 2014 Thomson Reuters Foundation Terms and Conditions Privacy and Cookies Acceptable Use Policy Contact Us Trust Principles Accessibility View full desktop version Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139) Copyright © 2014 Thomson Reuters Foundation
Skip to main content U.S. Agency for International Development USAID Leadership Who We Are backWho We Are Who We Are About USAID Who We Are Annual Letter Mission, Vision and Values USAID History Organization Operational Policy (ADS) Transparency Resource Portal What We Do backWhat We Do What We Do Areas of Focus What We Do Agriculture and Food Security Democracy, Human Rights and Governance Economic Growth and Trade Education Ending Extreme Poverty Environment and Global Climate Change Gender Equality and Women&apos;s Empowerment Global Health Water and Sanitation Working in Crises and Conflict U.S. Global Development Lab Where We Work backWhere We Work Where We Work A Global Presence Where We Work Interactive Project Map Afghanistan and Pakistan Africa Asia Europe and Eurasia Latin America and the Caribbean Middle East Mission Directory Results &amp; Data backResults &amp; Data Results &amp; Data The Value of Foreign Aid Results and Data Dollars to Results Progress Data Resources USAID Forward Strategy and Planning Budget and Spending Performance Reporting News &amp; Information backNews &amp; Information News &amp; Information Latest News at USAID News and Information Press Releases Congressional Testimony Speeches Photo Gallery The Impact Blog Fact Sheets Videos Events Newsletter Success Stories FrontLines Magazine Branding Work with USAID backWork with USAID Work With USAID Get Involved Work With USAID Partnership Opportunities Respond to a Solicitation Build a Partnership With Us Bring us Your Ideas Get Involved Careers Open/Close Menu Home » Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) » News Archive » Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) How You Can Help Latest News News Archive Fact Sheets Blogs and Press Releases News Stories Mailing List Infographic Photo Gallery Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) Secretary Kerry Announces New Partnerships and $25 Million in Fresh Aid for Typhoon Haiyan Victims Learn More Read the latest Typhoon Haiyan/Yolanda Fact Sheet - February 18, 2014 Learn More Visit PhilippinesRelief.Adcouncil.org for a list of organizations responding to the typhoon. Learn More Blog post by by Jeremy M. Konyndyk, Director, Office of U.S. Foreign Disaster Assistance Learn More Inside USAID&apos;s Typhoon Haiyan Disaster Response US Congressmen Visit USAID Typhoon Recovery Program USAID Announces Additional $10 Million for Philippine Relief Effort On November 8, Typhoon Haiyan—known as Typhoon Yolanda in the Philippines—made landfall in the central Philippines, bringing strong winds and heavy rains that have resulted in flooding, landslides, and widespread damage. Photo Gallery Typhoon Haiyan/Yolanda Response HOW YOU CAN HELP The best way to help those affected by disasters is to make a cash donation to reputable relief and charitable organizations working in the disaster zone.  For more information, contact the Center for International Disaster Information at www.cidi.org or 202-821-1999. Visit the following site for a list of organizations responding to Typhoon Haiyan: PhilippinesRelief.AdCouncil.org Learn More About How To Help Disaster Response - Latest News Typhoon Haiyan/Yolanda Fact Sheet #21 Philippines Typhoon Yolanda / Haiyan Fact Sheet #21 - 02-18-2014 (pdf - 250k) Philippines Typhoon Yolanda Program Map - 02-18-2014 (pdf - 2 MB) Tuesday, February 18, 2014 Typhoon-affected families in Tacloban city continue moving into the Government of the Philippines-constructed bunkhouses; shelter needs remain. Tropical Depression Lingling—locally known in the Philippines as Agaton—damaged shelters and crops in areas affected by Typhoon Yolanda/Haiyan. To date, the Shelter Cluster has provided close to 500,000 households with emergency shelter assistance, such as tents and plastic sheeting. More than 55,000 households have received tools and materials enabling them to repair their own homes safely. The Philippines is the world&apos;s second-largest coconut producer, accounting for more than 25 percent of global production in 2013. Typhoon Yolanda/Haiyan damaged or destroyed an estimated 33 million coconut trees, affecting the livelihoods of more than one million coconut farmers. Read More » USAID Remains Focused on Typhoon Response in the Philippines Tuesday, Januaary 14, 2014 Infographic: U.S. Government Humanitarian Aid to the Filipino People Excerpts from remarks made by Greg Beck on January 8, 2014, at a Center for Strategic and International Studies conference on the U.S. response to Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines I’m always worried that after the first month or two, on a large emergency such as Typhoon Haiyan, that the attention fades because there are so many other pressing issues and disasters around the world. It’s really important to remain focused on our efforts going forward. I was in Tacloban a few weeks ago, and I was able to see the immediate impacts of a long-term partnership with the Government of the Philippines. I was able to see the impact of our initial investments over the last five years in building up their capacity to mitigate the effects of these large natural disasters. I also was able to see how we’ve been working very strongly with diaspora groups, NGOs, local groups and the private sector to build the long-term relationships that we were able to put into action on day one. Read More » Typhoon Haiyan/Yolanda News Archive Fact Sheets: USAID staff prepare to load relief supplies into a US navy Seahawk helicopter at Tacloban Airport on November 17, 2013. Mark Ralston, AFP 01/24/2014: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #20 12/31/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #19 12/18/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #18 12/11/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #17 12/05/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #16 12/03/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #15 11/29/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #14 11/27/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #13 11/25/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #12 11/22/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #11 11/21/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #10 11/20/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #9 11/19/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #8 11/18/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #7 11/16/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #6 11/15/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #5 11/14/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #4 11/13/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #3 11/12/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #2 11/11/2013: Typhoon Haiyan / Yolanda Fact Sheet and Map #1 Blogs and Press Releases USAID Assistant Administrator Nancy Lindborg visits a warehouse at Tacloban Task Force Logistics headquarters where volunteers sort emergency supplies provided by USAID and others for distribution to families in need. Russell Galeti, USAID 01/08/2014: Remarks by USAID Asia Bureau Deputy Assistant Administrator Greg Beck for &quot;The Response to Philippines&apos; Typhoon Haiyan&quot; conference 12/19/2013: USAID, P&amp;G , and Coca-Cola Announce Partnerships to Aid Grassroots Entrepreneurship in the Philippines Recovery Effort 12/18/2013: Secretary Kerry announces additional support, partnerships in Tacloban 12/18/2013: State Department Fact Sheet on U.S. Government Assistance post-Typhoon Haiyan 12/03/2013: Testimony of Assistant Administrator Nancy E. Lindborg before the house Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations 11/19/2013: Blog: Photos of the Week: USAID Response to Typhoon Haiyan 11/19/2013: Testimony of Jeremy Konyndyk, Director, Office of U.S. Foreign Disaster Assistance, before the Senate Subcommittee on East Asian and Pacific Affairs 11/19/2013: Blog: Video of the Week: USAID Announces Additional $10 Million for Philippine Relief Effort 11/19/2013: Infographic: U.S. Government Humanitarian Aid to the Filipino People 11/16/2013: Blog: Strengthening the Philippines through USAID Relief 11/15/2013: USAID Assistant Administrator Nancy Lindborg Travels to the Philippines 11/14/2013: Video: President Obama Speaks on Typhoon Haiyan 11/11/2013: Statement from USAID Administrator Dr. Rajiv Shah on Super Typhoon Haiyan News Stories 12/05/2013: The Washington Post - Five myths about helping the Philippines 11/21/2013: The New York Times - Typhoon Reignites Debate Over How U.S. Supplies Food Aid 11/20/2013: US News and World Report - Aid Workers Settle In for Long Haul After Haiyan 11/18/2013: Brookings Up Front - Typhoon Yolanda/Haiyan Makes the Case for More Flexible Food Aid 11/17/2013: USA Today - Philippine president to camp in hard-hit Tacloban 11/17/2013: CNN - In Philippines, world scrambles to deliver &apos;the basics&apos; as one mother despairs 11/17/2013: The Wall Street Journal - Basic Aid Begins to Reach Philippine Communities Hit by Typhoon Haiyan 11/17/2013: The Christian Science Monitor - Filipinos reach out to typhoon evacuees as US relief effort moves into high gear 11/15/2013: US Global Leadership Council Blog - Helping The Philippines Heal 11/10/2013: Reuters - U.S. dispatches aid for Philippine typhoon recovery, Obama says Related Links Philippines: Humanitarian Assistance Sector Flickr Photo Set: Typhoon Haiyan Response Last updated: February 26, 2014 Share This Page Join Find out about career opportunities at USAID Act Learn how you can get involved and lend a hand. Partner Find business and funding opportunities. Comment Make a general inquiry or suggest an improvement. Connect Facebook Twitter RSS LinkedIn YouTube Stay Connected Search Search Google Appliance Enter the terms you wish to search for. Contact Us Compliance Forms Privacy Policy EGOV FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Open Government Inspector General Who We Are Who We Are Annual Letter Mission, Vision and Values USAID History Organization Operational Policy (ADS) Transparency Resource Portal What We Do What We Do Agriculture and Food Security Democracy, Human Rights and Governance Economic Growth and Trade Education Ending Extreme Poverty Environment and Global Climate Change Gender Equality and Women&apos;s Empowerment Global Health Water and Sanitation Working in Crises and Conflict U.S. Global Development Lab Where We Work Where We Work Interactive Project Map Afghanistan and Pakistan Africa Asia Europe and Eurasia Latin America and the Caribbean Middle East Mission Directory Results &amp; Data Results and Data Dollars to Results Progress Data Resources USAID Forward Strategy and Planning Budget and Spending Performance Reporting News &amp; Information News and Information Press Releases Congressional Testimony Speeches Photo Gallery The Impact Blog Fact Sheets Videos Events Newsletter Success Stories FrontLines Magazine Branding Work with USAID Work With USAID Partnership Opportunities Respond to a Solicitation Build a Partnership With Us Bring us Your Ideas Get Involved Careers
New Internationalist Home Magazine Books Blog Shop Subscribe Become a friend Get app About us We are 40! Politics Environment Economics Development Culture Humanrights Activism Corporations Country Argument More» Home › New Internationalist Blogs › Typhoon Haiyan, three months on By Maila Quiring | 0 Picking through the debris. People are now starting to build or repair homes. Wikimedia Commons under a Creative Commons Licence The foul odour and sight of the piles of debris that littered the side of the road caused the chatter in the car to fall eerily silent as we made our way through the devastation from Western to Eastern Samar in the Philippines. It was six days after Typhoon Haiyan struck. When I first saw the destruction my heart broke – I couldn’t comprehend what I was seeing. The storm – one of the worst on record – had ravished my homeland and killed over 5000. People were silent, motionless. But the pain was etched on their faces, clear for all to see. I travelled to Guiuan, Eastern Samar, which bore the brunt of the 8 November storm. Winds of up to 305 km per hour had torn homes and lives to shreds. The region was one of the poorest in the country even before Haiyan hit. Around 60 per cent of the population live in poverty and – many rely on coconut farming and fishing to earn enough to make ends meet. Yet as the waves, some higher than the coconut trees, swept in from the sea, they tore fishing boats and trees to shreds, leaving thousands without livelihoods. A total of 5.9 million people in the Philippines have seen their sources of income lost or disrupted, according to the UN. But although many had lost loved ones and their homes were reduced to rubble, their sheer determination to bounce back and get on with it, using whatever resources they can, was remarkable even then. It has now been three months since Haiyan. Homes are slowly being repaired with donated tools and materials, such as tarpaulin sheets and ropes. Debris has been cleared, leaving roads more accessible. Most communities have essential goods like jerry cans, tarpaulin sheets and blankets, and in some areas close to commercial centres, people are starting to get back to normality as small shops pop up selling much needed foods such as rice and canned meats.There is still a long way to go. The majority of those who live in Eastern Samar don’t have the money, or the means to earn enough to buy enough food to feed their families. The price of goods is high and volatile making the situation worse for many of the poor and vulnerable. Although people want to be self-reliant, it’s not possible yet, and many remain dependent on food distributions. Healthcare remains a concern for roughly a third of the population; sexual violence is on the rise. For these communities living at the end of dirt tracks, many kilometres from the nearest town or city, it will be a long time before their lives resemble those of before. In the immediate aftermath, the organization I work for – Coastal Core, a partner of Christian Aid – supplied communities with food and other items. Now it is starting to support communities through cash-for-work schemes, giving people the opportunity to help the clear up and rebuilding process by preparing felled coconut trees to make timber for shelter repairs. It also hands out grants to allow people to repair or restart their occupations. This will, in turn, provide them with the means to buy food for their families and materials to mend their homes. Other priority areas now include supporting fishing communities to repair their boats, introducing community gardening for growing vegetables, and restoring vital services that so many of us take for granted, such as clean water supplies. Wounds are not yet healed, homes remain in the coastal danger zone, and the means for local people to make a living are still very limited. Much more needs to be done to support communities to fully recover. In the long term, people will face frequent typhoons, flooding and erratic weather patterns. Learning more about climate change, how to build homes that are more likely to withstand storms, and what to do in emergency situations – especially in the more remote areas – are all ways to help guard against the challenges ahead. In the meantime, we will continue to give people the tools they need to re-build their lives and communities. Maila Quiring is a project officer with Coastal CORE, which is funded by Christian Aid. She works with communities in Samar to help them prepare for disasters and adapt to a changing climate. Support Christian Aid’s Philippines Typhoon Appeal  Permalink | Published on February 7, 2014 by Maila Quiring | 0 Themes: Disasters Philippines Tags: phillipines Typhoon Haiyan Leave a comment Write to the editor Email article Share digg reddit stumble upon facebook delicious Comments on Typhoon Haiyan, three months on Leave your comment Your name: Your email: Your comment:   Maximum characters allowed: 5000 Simple HTML allowed: bold, italic, and links Registration is quick and easy. Plus you won’t have to re-type the blurry words to comment!Register | Login ...And all is quiet. Subscribe to Comments for this article Guidelines: Please be respectful of others when posting your reply. Subscribe Renew Give a gift subscription Manage your subscription Get our free fortnightly eNews @newint RSS feed Most popular Most read Commented on Let&apos;s talk about sex in... the Arab world World Vision USA’s gay marriage U-turn is callous and cowardly The beginning of the end for the fossil-fuel spin machine The BBC having Clegg and Farage debate immigration is a bad-taste joke When did fair trade become a consumerist concept? What happened to unity in diversity? 2014-03-20 14 Mari Marcel Thekaekara Women on wheels raise money for adivasi human rights 2014-03-14 12 Mari Marcel Thekaekara Free money is no longer the stuff of utopia 2014-03-03 8 Bill Jordan Your language makes you who you are 2014-02-21 7 Jo Lateu The true cost of your cup of tea 2014-03-25 7 Marco Picardi Multimedia Videos Photos Podcasts More Videos Now Playing: Nada Videos from visionOntv&apos;s globalviews channel. Radio NI interviews - available in iTunes Related articles Popular tags Boardgame Human-rights Environment Poverty India Food Human Africa Oil Activism All tags New Internationalist Blogs New Internationalist hosts several different blogs, from the Editor&apos;s Blog to the Majority World Blog, the Gaza Blog to the Books Blog New Internationalist Blogs About Privacy Statement Contracts Jobs Contact Subscribe Institutional subscriptions Donate Friends of New Internationalist Advertise Blog Books Magazine Shop Easier English New Internationalist North American Office 2446 Bank Street, Suite 653 Ottawa, Ontario K1V 1A8 Canada New Internationalist reports on issues of world poverty and inequality. We focus attention on the unjust relationship between the powerful and the powerless worldwide in the fight for global justice. More about our work © Copyright New Internationalist 1973-2014. Except where otherwise noted, content on this site is licensed under Creative Commons.Except where otherwise noted, images on this site are © the attributed photographer/illustrator or representative agency. Top of page
Visit convoyofhope.org Blog Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest Vimeo YouTube Vine Categories All Updates About Search Donate Partner Spotlight 11 posts In The News 13 posts Staff Spotlight 9 posts Women&apos;s Empowerment 8 posts Disaster Services 26 posts Advocacy 4 posts Rural Compassion 2 posts Program Updates 82 posts Join The Convoy 4 posts From The Founders 7 posts Field Story 15 posts Volunteering 5 posts News 8 posts Photo Series 9 posts Community Outreach 25 posts Agriculture 5 posts Inspiration 30 posts Children&apos;s Feeding 19 posts Slide Carousel Right Close Carousel Slide Carousel Left Show Sidebar Response Update An up-to-the-minute update on our response effort. #supertyphoonhaiyan Philippines Typhoon Response Facebook Twitter Tweet Email Pinterest Reported By: Communication Team COH, Communication Team Department Poster Super Typhoon Haiyan Response Update 6 Super Typhoon Haiyan Response Update 5 | Download Super Typhoon Haiyan Response Update 4 | Download Super Typhoon Haiyan Response Update 3 | Download Typhoon Haiyan Response Update 2 from Convoy of Hope on Vimeo. Super Typhoon Haiyan Response Update 2 | Download Super Typhoon Haiyan Response Update | Download Dusk and burning debris at a Daanbantayan church Convoy of Hope has distributed meals. | Download Convoy of Hope disaster response team member, Chris Dudley takes a break from assembling to water filter to high-five his captive audience. | Download Pastor Roger has helped with much of Convoy of Hope&apos;s work on Malapascua. | Download Convoy of Hope has been distributing water filters across the Philippines as part of our response to Typhoon Haiyan. | Download Most of the residents of Malapascua rely on the fishing and diving-tourism for a living. | Download Convoy of Hope volunteers load food and water for distribution in Ilolio City, Philippines. | Download The remains of a children&apos;s play area after being hit by Typhoon Haiyan. | Download Children wander through the aftermath of Super Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines. | Download Food and relief supplies are being distributed by teams across the Philippines. | Download A young man sifts through what&apos;s left of his possessions after Typhoon Haiyan. | Download Raul Manuel, Philippines country director for Convoy of Hope assesses damage in Manascua. | Download Convoy of Hope assessment teams reported widespread devastation spread across the Philippines | Download Convoy of Hope Philippines volunteers in Bangon, Philippines met Christina and her family who lost their home to Typhoon Haiyan. | Download Mangled sheet metal lines the streets of this neighborhood after Super Typhoon Haiyan. | Download Super Typhoon Haiyan destroyed thousands of homes in the Philippines. | Download Power lines are down across the areas affected by Super Typhoon Haiyan leaving already battered residents without power. | Download January 24, 2014 | 2:00 PM Springfield, MissouriRelief supplies continue to be bagged and distributed to survivors in Cebu City, Roxas City and Iloilo. In addition to distributing meals (1.24 million) Convoy of Hope teams have also distributed: fishing nets, water filters (260), sanitizers, roofing materials, matches, salt, nails, tarps, hygiene kits (3,388) and supplies to repair/rebuild boats and motors. Repairs have also been completed on a local church in Danbantayan to ensure food storage and feeding programs in the area continue. Distributed food has included: fortified rice and soy protein meals, soup mix, dried fruit, canned tomatoes, paper goods, tuna, FMSC meals, Plum Organics product, rice, corned beef, sardines, pasta, pasta sauce, and Reliv Now product. Building materials provided by Convoy of Hope being distributed to small islands in the Philippines. December 20, 2013 | 8:00 AM Springfield, MissouriOur Disaster response effort in the Philippines distributing food and supplies to Typhoon Haiyan survivors continues. We are seeing great need with many people living in the elements and there are still reports of thousands of children going without food. Since Convoy of Hope began its relief efforts in the Philippines, nearly 1 million meals have been distributed in eight provinces and 50-plus communities. In addition, response teams have delivered 260 water filtration units and enough Tarps and roofing supplies to provide up to 100 families with temporary shelter. Convoy of Hope relief teams distribute aid to a small island in the Philippines. December 3, 2013 | 2:00 PM Springfield, MissouriConvoy of Hope teams continue to distribute immediate relief to families in remote areas of the Philippines. Our teams in the field are reporting back that we are reaching many of the hardest hit areas with food and supplies. In addition to locally purchased food, water filtration units and other disaster relief supplies, we have distributed 566,182 meals to families reeling from Typhoon Haiyan. Some of the areas recently supplied include: Iloilo, Panay, Concepcion, Danao Danao Island, Talisay Island, Tapas, Jamindan, Daanbantayan, Bantayan Island, Carnaza Island, Mambusao, Altvas, Coron, Roxas City, Leutod Leutod, Bogo City, San Remegio, Sitio Leonor, Tagumpay, Sitio Pali, Barangay 6, Sitio Malbato and Barangay Bintuan. Jason Anderson (left,) of Convoy of Hope&apos;s global disaster response team helps local volunteers deliver relief to remote areas of Northern Cebu. November 23, 2013 | 6:27 PM Daanbantayan, PhilippinesDespite damage to their own home, Victor and Grace have been able to help children and families with food and supplies from Convoy of Hope since the day the Typhoon hit. Hear their story firsthand and get a from-the-field update from Convoy of Hope president, Hal Donaldson in the video above. Pastor Victor stands in front of the day&apos;s meal for about 200 children in the local Convoy of Hope feeding program. November 19, 2013 | 7:35 PM Cebu City, PhilippinesOur five-hour trek to reach survivors of Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) on the completely devastated island of Malapascu begins in tiny mountain villages with stunning views of the green Cebu coastline. Winding up a two-lane foliage covered mountain road, we’re hauling water filtration units and a disaster response team in two diesel vans. The closer we come to the town of Daanbantayan, the fewer structures and trees remain standing. Picturesque views give way to mangled palm trees and roadside fires and children beg for food along the road. Our driver, Nelson, points out one destroyed school after the next. “I’ve lived here my whole life and never seen anything like this,” he says. About 45-minutes out we come over a mountain pass that reveals a birds-eye view of Typhoon Haiyan’s destruction. The scene is unfathomable. Homes, trees, schools and livelihoods are wrecked. A strong wind blowing through what’s left of the trees is an eerie reminder of the massive storm that hit the island a little more than a week earlier. We stop in Daanbantayan at a church that is home to one of Convoy of Hope’s children’s feeding locations where several children greet us with resilient smiles. Elizabeth, a worker here, tells Philippines country director Raul Manuel that their water filter is broken. Thankfully we’re able to provide a few replacements. Thousands of meals have been provided to the community from this location since the Typhoon and many more are planned. Pastor Victor, who oversees the church and programs, talks with Manuel about where to put a large water purification unit with the capacity to serve much of the surrounding area. From Daanbantayan we go by boat to the small island of Malapascua where diving-tourism and fishing are the livelihood for locals whose makeshift homes fill the interior of the island. The team offloads the water filters onto the beach where men are working to repair fishing boats. Convoy of Hope also has an ongoing children’s feeding location on this island and has been providing additional meals to families since the Typhoon. “The people here need help immediately,” says Manuel. “Many of their boats are damaged and with little chance of tourism in the near future, most of these families don’t know where their next meals are coming from.” Our disaster response teams in the Philippines continue to provide immediate relief across many of the worst hit provinces like Cebu, Leyte, Capiz and Iloilo. To date, hundreds of thousands of meals, as well as relief supplies and tents, have been provided by Convoy of Hope teams, volunteers and partners. Plans are in place for our teams to return to Daanbantayan and Malapascua with more meals in the coming days. Kids play outside of Convoy of Hope&apos;s feeding location in Daanbantayan, Philippines. The Convoy of Hope team carries water filters to the area of Malapascua where nearly every home was destroyed. November 14, 2013 | 6:30 PM Springfield, Mo.Reports of dehydration, water-borne illness and starvation have increased across the Philippines as Typhoon Haiyan survivors have become desperate for food and water. Well over 100 Convoy of Hope volunteers, staff and partners have already mobilized to distribute more than 100,000 meals across several provinces including Cebu, Mindoro, Bulacan, Tarlac and Iloilo. While distributing relief on Thursday in Iloilo residents from Bito-on, a tiny island, came ashore seeking food. “They told our team their village only has one boat left and they couldn’t go back empty-handed,” says Chris Dudley, a member of Convoy of Hope’s disaster response team. “Our team provided 150 kilos of rice, two boxes of noodles and a box of corned beef.” Convoy of Hope teams will carry out more relief efforts across the typhoon battered country on Friday. “Our top priority is to help communities and islands that have little to no existing aid,” says Karen Benson, senior director of disaster response for Convoy of Hope. “So far, food and clean water make up most of our distributions because that is what families clearly need.” In addition to food and water, Convoy of Hope also has water filtration units, diarrhea kits, dehydration kits, shoes and hygiene supplies on-hand to distribute as needed. Our teams are planning to reach hard-hit areas in the Leyte and Samar provinces on Friday and into the weekend. In preparation, a local school for the deaf will help pack meals and aid to be distributed. These next few days are vital as some families have been without adequate access to food or clean water for nearly a week. November 12, 2013 | 4:45 PM Springfield, Mo.Our in-country teams and partners have distributed more than 75,000 meals in two areas affected by Super Typhoon Haiyan. This initial relief distribution comes from about 600,000 meals that were on-hand in the Philippines prior to the storm. In addition to meals and relief supplies on-hand, we have four shipping containers en route along with five more containers staged for shipping. In all, about 3,000,000 meals as well as relief supplies like water filters, hygiene products and tents are earmarked for the Philippines. Reports of starving families begging for food reiterate the immediate need for food and clean water. Our assessment teams have sent photos of young children wandering through debris and standing in the streets asking for food and water. Needs appear to be growing daily, but thankfully relief efforts are underway. Kids stand roadside asking for food and water. Convoy of Hope volunteers prepare food and relief supplies to be distributed to survivors of Typhoon Haiyan. November 11, 2013 | 5:09 PM Springfield, Mo.Convoy of Hope volunteers in the Philippines were assessing damage in Roxas City when they came across Christina who’s home was destroyed. Thankfully, she and her three grandkids including a 3-month old baby are safe. Families like Christina’s will need access to food, clean water and immediate relief supplies for weeks to come. Before Super Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) made landfall Convoy of Hope’s Global Disaster Response already had emergency food and supplies prepositioned and ready for distribution to survivors. Items for distribution include: Food (including fruit pouches &amp; canned goods), water purification units, hygiene kits, tents and shoes. Officials worry the death toll could reach 10,000. Four containers of food are currently en route to the Philippines. Five more containers are being prepared for shipment at our World Distribution Center in Springfield, Mo. Along with our in-country teams we have an assessment team en route to the Philippines now. This team should reach their destination by Tuesday morning CST. They will assist in-country teams with immediate response work and help plan our long-term response. They are also transporting much-needed water filters for distribution. We feed 20,961 children in 151 locations throughout the Philippines. Some of these children and their families are in the impacted area. Convoy of Hope Philippines volunteers in Bangon, Philippines met Christina and her family who lost their home to Typhoon Haiyan. A young Filipino family entertains their baby at a make-shift evacuation shelter. November 8, 2013 | 11:00 AM Springfield, Mo.Following one of the most powerful storms in recent history, thousands of families in the Philippines are suffering, have been displaced and need help. Convoy of Hope has teams and aid on the ground in the Philippines ready to help those suffering from Super Typhoon Haiyan. Our children&apos;s feeding initiative serves more than 20,000 children in the Philippines and as a result, four containers of food and supplies were already en route and will be available as needed. Haiyan (locally known as Yolanda) is being compared to a very strong Category 5 hurricane with sustained winds of up to 195 miles per hour. For reference, Hurricane Katrina reached sustained winds of 175 miles per hour. The team now in the Philippines most recently responded with 43,000 meals to the 7.1 earthquake that struck Bohol less than a month ago. In response to Super Typhoon Haiyan, Convoy of Hope will be distributing food, water filters, shoes and other supplies to survivors. A house is engulfed by the storm surge brought about by powerful typhoon Haiyan Friday Nov.8, 2013 (AP Photo/Nelson Salting) November 7, 2013 | 4:30 PM Springfield, Mo.Convoy of Hope’s Global Disaster Response (GDR) Team is preparing relief supplies and sending assessment teams to travel to the Philippines as super typhoon Haiyan makes landfall. Staff in the Philippines have positioned disaster relief supplies in advance of the storm. Forecasters predict Haiyan to hit the Philippines as “among the most powerful storms witnessed anywhere in modern times.” “Food and supplies are on hand at our distribution center in Manila,” says Kary Kingsland, executive vice president of Global Initiatives for Convoy of Hope. “We are ready to send them out where needed. The people of the Philippines need our prayers but will also need our help.” Convoy of Hope’s GDR team in Springfield, Mo., remains in communication with staff in the Philippines and will move forward with response efforts once the storm passes. “This storm looks to be historic and we are paying close attention to what occurs over the next two days,” says Kingsland. “We have contacts and partners on three islands which will position Convoy of Hope to quickly provide relief to survivors.” Get Involved Response Map The Philippines About The Disaster Super Typhoon Haiyan is billed as one of the most powerful storms to ever make landfall in recorded history. It is compared to a strong Category 5 hurricane. Seven million people have been directly affected. Before Typhoon Haiyan made landfall Convoy of Hope’s Global Disaster Response already had emergency food and supplies prepositioned and ready for distribution to survivors. ￼ Key Stats U.S. based teams have been traveling to and from the Philippines to assist in-country staff with immediate response work and to plan our long-term response. Our teams are distributing food, clean water and relief supplies on an ongoing basis. Initial stages of the rebuilding process have already begun including distribution of roofing tin and building materials.  In The Press FOX KRBK: Convoy of Hope Sends Supplies to Typhoon Survivors CNN: Help for Typhoon victims NewsLeader: Right place at tough time Tags: Super Typhoon Haiyan Super Typhoon Yolanda Typhoon wallace ill pray for you http://convoyofhope.org/ Convoy of Hope Thank you! jez thank you for all the efforts to help phils.God bless for all the volunteers ! http://convoyofhope.org/ Convoy of Hope Thank you, we are honored to help. Christine Thiessen Thank you! http://convoyofhope.org/ Convoy of Hope Thank you Christine, it is our honor to serve the Philippines. Guest Thank you for all the efforts and prayers. GOD Bless us all http://convoyofhope.org/ Convoy of Hope Thank you. Emily I praise God for the foresight of COH to position supplies in the area of the Philippines to be ready to move it in as soon as the storm had passed. My prayers are with the team on the ground there, as well as those helping with the supply chain. I’m also praying for all those people in the Philippines who lost loved ones, homes and livelihoods in the storm. May they see and come to know Jesus through those who arrive to help them make it through this tragedy. http://convoyofhope.org/ Convoy of Hope Emily, we are honored to serve in the Philippines. Thank you for your kind words. Edmond Let us all mobilize Filipinos attending AG churches in the U.S. to spearhead the fund-raising. It is time to step-up to the plate for our countrymen. http://convoyofhope.org/ Convoy of Hope That is very generous Edmond. Thank you! Rey we are in…family life community church in san Leandro California. we will raise funds and send it to convoy of hope. http://convoyofhope.org/ Convoy of Hope Thank you Rey! Rey Give us link of the logistics in Phil Nick CAn’t donate on this site!!!! :( – why doesn’t it accept payments from around the world?? Nick really unhappy about that – i put it all my details as well as UK card info because no option for HK card details. It rejected the UK card as well….how are we sposed to donate?? http://convoyofhope.org/ Convoy of Hope Nick, I apologize for the inconvenience. We’re working on a long-term solution. For now you can donate to us here: http://www.stayclassy.org/events/typhoon-haiyan-response/e28645 Maganda Lusod Seemann I am truly grateful to all you. I’m from the Philippines living here in Iowa. Thank You Convoy of Hope for helping my homeland. I was at Red Culture Youth Convention recently in Des Moines with our Youth Students with a heavy heart for my country and family. When they announced that Convoy of Hope were on their way to the Philippines I was very touched and deeply thank God for all you do. Thank You and May God Bless your heart ya’ll. http://convoyofhope.org/ Convoy of Hope Thank you Maganda, it’s an honor to serve your country. Dawn Graham I give thanks to God that I chose to donate to Convoy of Hope, because it is one organization that is always ready everywhere in the world. My prayers are with you. May God be glorified through you and your efforts, and that you are richly blessed. I will give again when I can. http://convoyofhope.org/ Convoy of Hope Thank Dawn, we’re honored to have your support! Kris The Colbert Nation is with you! Naomi Kisner Praying for the Convoy of Hope team and volunteers and for the Philippines. God bless all of you and keep you from harm and illness. The Convoy of Hope is a light to our darkened world. I pray for a revival in that country as your group and other Christian organizations are on the ground there now. George Manlangit It’s tough to see the devastation that was caused by the typhoon. As I scrolled down and saw the picture of the baby smiling, it made you pause and think how a small child with that beautiful smile could probably ease the pain of the people surrounding him/her at that time. God bless you, COH, as you pass the torch of hope that light the hearts of these people in need. *Maraming salamat.* Mark Marcinko My name is Mark MArcinko from Johannebsurg, South Africa. My company supplies water purification products, in the form of powders, which, when mixed with dirty water, creates clear, clean drinking water. I would be more than happy to help, please advise if I can supply and deliver. I can be contacted on mark@bsedistributors.co.za or cinko@iafrica.com Tina Cillo Bless your heart and thank you for all you do for the Filipino people. Grateful as well for the opportunity to be able to help in what little way I can through you. Extend our thanks to Stephen Colbert as well, it is through his Colbert Report that I got to learn about your organization. “…hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies” (Shawshank Redemption) Maraming salamat! Fel Bagunu Our 3yr old church plant, GracePointe Community Church in Lee’s Summit, MO, just took an offering this Sunday to help with your relief for #Typhoon #Haiyan and will send that offering this week! Thank God for @convoyofhope:disqus for all you are doing in the #Philippines! Carlos I Would Really Like To Join The Convoy of Hope I Love Making Or Seeing Kids Happy Cause They Have Food And Supplies They need. More Features Hope Report | In-depth reports from the places we work. Community Outreach season beginsA new outlook in Bay Point, Calif. Reported by Adam McMullin View Community Outreach season begins Field Story | A first-hand account from the field. A year of growingTwelve months in Agriculture at Convoy of Hope Reported by Jason Streubel View A year of growing Field Story | A first-hand account from the field. World Water DayClean water for life. Reported by Jason Inman View World Water Day Field Story | A first-hand account from the field. International Women’s DayEmpowering Women with Training and Seed Capital Reported by Communication Team View International Women’s Day Photo Series | Photos from the places we serve. Photos of Empowered WomenFinding Hope and a Future in Ethiopia View Photos of Empowered Women Partner Spotlight | A look at the partners who help us bring hope. The Pack ShackFighting hunger in Northwest Arkansas and Beyond View The Pack Shack Field Story | A first-hand account from the field. Grace and MalapascuaHope for the Philippines Reported by Jason Inman View Grace and Malapascua Field Story | A first-hand account from the field. Rural Compassion in Rockaway BeachFeeding the hungry in rural America Reported by Zachary Payne View Rural Compassion in Rockaway Beach Photo Series | Photos from the places we serve. FEMA Corps and Convoy of HopeA new kind of partnership View FEMA Corps and Convoy of Hope Field Story | A first-hand account from the field. Empowering women in EngarukaHope and dignity restored Reported by Nathan Mallonee View Empowering women in Engaruka About Convoy What We Do Get Involved The Hope Supply Donate Contact Us Hope Network Privacy Policy Photo/Video Disclaimer Disclosure   Donations PO Box 219368 Kansas City, MO 64121 or Donate Online World Distribution Center 330 S. Patterson Ave. Springfield, MO 65802 P (417) 823-8998 F (417) 823-8244 DC Office 1455 Pennsylvania Ave. NW - Suite 400 Washington, DC 20004 P (202) 280-2002 #HOPEIS Everywhere ©2014 Convoy of Hope, Inc. is a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization // All donations are tax deductible in full or in part. // Delivering HOPE since 1994. Close Search Search Related Events Related Pages Related People Blog Categories &amp; Tags Related Posts
English Français Español Jobs Press Reports Contact Skip to Navigation Search this site: Home › Emergencies › Philippines Typhoon Haiyan We have reached 550,000 people with humanitarian aid Philippines Typhoon Haiyan View Updates Donate now “Making sure people have clean water, food and safe sanitation is our immediate priority.” On 8 November 2013, Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines, affecting about 14 million people. Three months on, despite a huge national and international effort, humanitarian need across affected areas remains enormous. What Oxfam is doing Oxfam is working on the islands of Cebu, Leyte and Samar. We have reached almost 550,000 people with emergency relief during the first three months of the response. This includes supplying clean water to more than 200,000 people in Tacloban by supporting the government to repair and fix broken pipes. We have provided people with hygiene kits, sanitation services, cash support, water kits, rice seed, shelter materials, kits for pregnant women, hygiene education and cleaned waste and debris. We are also helping to prevent diseases, such as dengue and malaria spreading, in cooperation with the Department of Health in Tacloban. We are supporting fisherfolk and coconut farmers, particularly women, whose means of earning a living have been decimated by the typhoon and we are poised to provide start-up capital for small businesses, as well as equipment such as fishing nets and kits, seeds and fertiliser. We believe that, now is the time to focus on bolstering longer-term support to boost income so people no longer need to rely on emergency aid. It is crucial people are given the help they need to recover their ability to earn a living through replacement of or compensation for lost equipment or savings, as well as training and start-up capital. Read the blog: The art of saying &quot;Thank you&quot; The situation Super typhoon Haiyan (locally Yolanda) is another deadly warning of what much of the world can expect unless we can minimize climate change. Around 14 million people have been affected, some 6,000 killed, and an estimated 4.4 million displaced. Despite the massive logistical challenges and widespread destruction, the relief effort has helped millions to survive. Major gaps remain, however, especially in rural and hard to reach areas. Like most disasters, typhoon Haiyan has hit the poorest and the most vulnerable people the hardest. 4 out of 10 families in the affected provinces were living below the poverty line before Haiyan hit. Many families lived from small-scale agriculture, fishing and from low paid jobs and micro-enterprises in towns and cities. The typhoon affected a third of the country&apos;s rice growing areas and missing the current planting season will potentially leave millions of people without their staple food. Longer-term support is needed to help communities build back better and protect people against future shocks. The Reconstruction Assistance on Yolanda (RAY) plan issued by the Philippines government on 18 December outlines many positive principles and intentions. However, it lacks a bold vision for significantly tackling poverty and inequality. Justin Morgan, our Country Director in the Philippines, said: “It’s been immensely challenging to get aid through, but the response, both from the people of the Philippines and the international community, has been amazing. &quot;Our main concern now is supporting rural communities who have not received anything like adequate assistance yet and making sure people are able to quickly rebuild their homes, infrastructure and livelihoods, in a way that will make them more resilient to future shocks. “Typhoon Haiyan is the shape of things to come - with climate change set to increase the severity of typhoons in the region and projected sea level rises to compound the effects of deadly storm surge. The Philippines will need sustained support and programmes to prepare for more storms like this. Ultimately it also needs action on reducing the threat of climate change.” Stay up to date For the latest on our response, follow us on Twitter @Oxfam, or like our Oxfam in the Philippines on Facebook: Oxfam sa Pilipinas. For media inquiries, please contact your nearest Oxfam Media Officer. Last updated 4 February 2014. You may also like Blog: One month after Typhoon Haiyan: Rebuilding a just and resilient society Story: Philippines typhoon: A first step toward recovery in Tanauan Blog: Rising from the rubble in the Philippines Tags: donate emergency response humanitarian relief resilience typhoon Haiyan Yolanda Philippines Permalink: http://oxf.am/wZR Home About us Get involved Campaigns Development Emergencies Press room Blogs Emergencies Crisis in Syria Philippines Typhoon Haiyan Rice seed distribution: photos A first step toward recovery in Tanauan Aid kit distribution: photos When roofs started to fly Mali crisis Cyclone Phailin, India Pakistan floods Conflict in D.R. Congo Crisis in South Sudan Haiti earthquake 2010 Crisis in Gaza Yemen crisis Donate now Donate to Oxfam America Conflicts and Emergencies Blog Democratic Republic of Congo: Supporting women&apos;s rights and addressing the root causes of the conflict 7 April, 2014 - 12:07 An amazing display of solidarity #WithSyria! 19 March, 2014 - 13:59 Children’s hopes for the future of Syria take to the skies to mark the third anniversary of the crisis 13 March, 2014 - 18:37 Copyright © 2014 Oxfam International. All rights reserved. Contact Privacy Accessibility Site map Read our blog Get Oxfam RSS Feeds What&apos;s RSS? Oxfam America Oxfam Australia Oxfam-in-Belgium Oxfam Canada Oxfam France Oxfam Germany Oxfam Great Britain Oxfam Hong Kong Oxfam India Oxfam Intermón (Spain) Oxfam Ireland Oxfam Mexico Oxfam New Zealand Oxfam Novib (Netherlands) Oxfam-Québec Oxfam Italy Oxfam Japan
Turn autoplay off Turn autoplay on Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off Jump to content [s] Jump to site navigation [0] Jump to search [4] Terms and conditions [8] Edition: UK US AU Your activity Email subscriptions Account details Linked services Sign out Profile Beta About us About us Contact us Press office Terms of service Privacy policy Subscribe Guardian iPhone iPad edition Kindle Guardian Weekly Digital edition News US World Sports Comment Culture Business Money Environment Science Travel Tech Media Life &amp; style Data News World news Typhoon Haiyan RSS Typhoon Haiyan The latest news and comment on typhoon Haiyan Most recent Yeb Sano: unlikely climate justice star 1 Apr 2014: John Vidal meets the Filipino diplomat whose emotional reaction to typhoon Haiyan made him the face of UN climate talks Haiyan – harbinger of things to come? 31 Mar 2014: Lives lost, villages destroyed, communities devastated – and according to the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report, the Philippines disaster was just the beginning. John Vidal reports &apos;We expect catastrophe&apos; – Manila, the megacity on the climate frontline 31 Mar 2014: IPCC report warns life in the Filipino capital and other coastal cities will get much worse in many ways as temperatures rise Climate change could leave another 50 million people facing hunger by 2050 25 Mar 2014: Naderev M Saño: As governments convene in Japan to discuss environmental change, the need for action to avoid a global food crisis is clear Catholic survivors of Super Typhoon Haiyan revisited 14 Mar 2014: This photograph taken on November 18, 2013 shows survivors of Super Typhoon Haiyan marching in a religious procession in Tolosa on the eastern Philippine island of Leyte one week after the Super Typhoon devastated the area. Typhoon Haiyan: UK response praised by aid watchdog 11 Mar 2014: Swift reaction by Department for International Development mobilised wider donor support for Philippines, says Icai Typhoon Haiyan disaster response: how the relief effort worked 7 Feb 2014: Mark Tran: An emergency worker on how a combination of crises planning and government co-operation bolstered humanitarian efforts Tindog Tacloban: the mayor of a town rising up from Typhoon Haiyan - video Video (22min 09sec), 7 Feb 2014: With exclusive access to Tacloban&apos;s mayor, Tindog Tacloban follows three Filipinos as they try, 10 days after Haiyan, to piece together their lives and make sense of the world they once knew Tacloban three months after Typhoon Haiyan – in pictures 7 Feb 2014: The stop-start progress of rebuilding Tacloban, three months after one of the most powerful storms ever recorded obliterated it, is hampered by infighting between the Philippine presidential office of Benigno Aquino and the local mayor, Alfred Romualdez Typhoon Haiyan: feud hampers reconstruction of Tacloban 6 Feb 2014: Three months after storm, residents of Philippine city in need of better shelter and frustrated by speed of recovery effort Typhoon Haiyan&apos;s children: Vergel&apos;s story – video Video (1min 37sec), 6 Feb 2014: Before the typhoon, Vergel begged for fish from local fishermen to sell for rice so he could feed his younger brothers. Now the fish are gone Typhoon Haiyan sends coconut farming &apos;back to year zero&apos; 6 Feb 2014: Mark Tran: The Philippine storm destroyed 33m coconut trees as well fishing on Leyte island, leaving many people without a livelihood From &apos;tourist in the corridors of power&apos; to ambassador to the Philippines Guardian Professional, 6 Feb 2014: Foreign Office&apos;s Asif Ahmed, nominated in the British Muslim awards, on diversity at work and his response to typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan&apos;s children: Jhusmina and Adonis&apos; story – video Video (1min 39sec), 6 Feb 2014: Jhusmine is 19 years old. She recalls the trauma of escaping Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines when heavily pregnant Typhoon Haiyan&apos;s children: Anna Mae&apos;s story – video Video (1min 43sec), 5 Feb 2014: Anna Mae, 11, recounts the horror of how her house was destroyed by Typhoon Haiyan and how her family fled Next 1 2 3 4 5 1-15 of 181 for Typhoon Haiyan Related subjects World news Philippines Natural disasters and extreme weather Asia Pacific Hurricanes United States Show five more…… United Nations US foreign policy Australia Syria US military Environment Climate change Global climate talks COP 19: UN climate change conference | Warsaw Flooding Carbon emissions Show five more…… Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Sustainable development Climate change scepticism Drought Renewable energy Global development Aid Environmental sustainability Humanitarian response Hunger Cities and development Show five more…… Conflict and development Development data Food security Independent Commission for Aid Impact (ICAI) Migration Society Charities Voluntary sector Children Disasters Emergency Committee Child protection Show three more…… Contraception and family planning Health Volunteering Politics David Cameron Foreign policy Liberal Democrats Department for International Development (DfID) Ed Davey Show four more…… Ed Miliband Justine Greening Lord Ashdown Nick Clegg More Blogs Heed the warnings in extreme weather – or risk losing Earth 31 Jan 2014 08.01 EST The Philippines is devastated as much by unfair debt as typhoon Haiyan Tim Jones, 23 Dec 2013 02.00 EST Philippines disaster diary: putting a brave face on Christmas 20 Dec 2013 06.56 EST 2013: a year of disasters for Asia that we&apos;re all to blame for 19 Dec 2013 10.38 EST Philippines disaster diary: darkness and destruction on the road to Tacloban 8 Dec 2013 02.00 EST On the Guardian today Money When the French clock off at 6pm, they really mean it Technology Heartbleed: don&apos;t rush to update passwords, security experts warn World news Sriracha hot sauce production declared public nuisance by California city Life and style Flirtation or sexual harassment? Here&apos;s how to tell the difference World news Man suspected of 40 murders in US Science States look to naloxone to cure America’s overdose epidemic Today&apos;s best video We&apos;re Going on a Bear Hunt: &apos;The editors were so excited they were nearly weeping&apos; 25 years after its publication, author Michael Rosen and illustrator Helen Oxenbury discuss their children&apos;s classic James Lovelock: give up on saving the planet Gaia theorist previews exhibition at London&apos;s Science Museum The film to watch this week Peter Bradshaw recommends the Iranian film Willow and Wind Call of Duty and the explosive rise of pro gaming Meet the players, sponsors, coaches, parents and pundits On World news Most viewed Latest Last 24 hours 1.  Oscar Pistorius accused of egotistical behaviour with Reeva Steenkamp 2. Oscar Pistorius trial live - 10 April 3. Silvio Berlusconi&apos;s judgment day – you choose the sentence 4. Sriracha hot sauce production declared public nuisance by California city 5. Christine Lagarde: huge government and bank debts risk new financial crash More most viewed Last 24 hours 1.  MoD fails in attempt to stifle criticism of Afghan conflict 2. Oscar Pistorius admits he had no reason to fire shots that killed girlfriend 3. Oscar Pistorius: &apos;I didn&apos;t have time to think&apos; - video 4. Russian MPs say Mikhail Gorbachev should be prosecuted for treason 5. France puts UN ambassador&apos;s residence in New York up for sale for $48m All today&apos;s stories Sponsored feature License/buy our content | Privacy policy | Terms of service | US advertising | A - Z index | About us © 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. ;
Working together to end poverty and injustice Search Go Our work Publications Our people Blog Oxfam America Policy &amp; Practice Oxfam America Unwrapped Press Donate Contact Us Help Home The Politics of Poverty Dispatch from the Philippines: A livelihoods crisis looms in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan The Politics of Poverty Ideas and analysis from Oxfam America&apos;s policy experts Dispatch from the Philippines: A livelihoods crisis looms in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan February 24, 2014 Posted by Ray Offenheiser Rainero and Vilma Silvano outside their home in Tanauan, Leyte. The coconut industry suffered widespread damage during Typhoon Haiyan, putting the livelihoods of over one million farming households at risk. The trees take 6-8 years to mature, so there is an urgent need for farmers to replant and find an alternative source of income. “We had almost one hectare of coconut trees and a rice field. All was destroyed. We started planting rice again but the newly-planted rice has been washed away by the rain,” says Vilma Silvano, a member of the Kabuyan Farmers Association. Photo: Eleanor Farmer / Oxfam Share this story: Restoring rural families’ livelihoods may be the biggest challenge that remains following Typhoon Haiyan. I’ve just returned from the Philippines. Despite the progress and recovery I saw, it was clear to me that restoring rural families’ livelihoods may be the biggest challenge lying before the government and the aid agencies that remain following Typhoon Haiyan/Yolanda. Community leaders, government officials, and aid workers can all see the looming livelihoods crisis. But realistic solutions to address immediate needs are hard to come by. The sugar, fisheries, and coconut sectors have not fared well. Major sugar mills in Leyte were totally destroyed by the storm. The storm decimated the sugar crop ahead of its peak harvest, leaving tens of thousands of seasonal sugar workers without any income. Sugar mills will be rebuilt, crops replanted, and workers will get back to work in a year. In the meantime, the workers will seek part-time work rebuilding homes or planting and harvesting rice. Thousands of fishermen and women across the region lost boats and gear—more than 30,000 boats were destroyed. Most of the boats are made of wood. Wood for boat building is now scarce, so people have been scrambling to find alternative solutions. The national government and aid agencies are now providing fishing communities with molds and materials to make fiberglass boats. It’s a new experience, and communities are slowly learning how to produce the boats. Getting fishermen and women back on the water as soon as possible is the priority. The coconut sector is the hardest hit of all the agricultural sectors. Some 33 million trees either downed or decapitated across a vast landscape of coastal plains and mountains. Coconut trees are valued for their coconut milk, copra, leaves and wood and they are a deep part of the cultural heritage. It takes ten years for a coconut tree to return to full production. Fast growing alternative varieties would not survive typhoons of a lesser velocity than Yolanda. Hundreds of thousands of tenant farmers live from the harvesting and processing of coconut trees. Their livelihoods are now in jeopardy. Oxfam has given coconut workers and farming cooperatives chainsaws and portable table saws to start milling downed trees to produce lumber for housing construction. There is great demand for the lumber, but the work is time bound. Downed coconut trees will attract an infestation of rhinoceros beetles that feed on downed trees and attack healthy ones. There is no way that all the downed trees can be milled within four months. In the meantime, Oxfam and other organizations will provide cash for work and milling equipment for teams to process as much as they possibly can. Tagged in cash for work, coconut farmers, disaster recovery, livelihoods, Philippines, Typhoon Haiyan, Typhoon Yolanda Share this story: Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website Comment Author bio Ray Offenheiser Raymond C. Offenheiser is the president of Oxfam America. Offenheiser, who has worked his entire career in the nonprofit sector, is a recognized leader on issues such as poverty alleviation, human rights, foreign assistance, and international development. More posts by Ray Offenheiser Related topics Conflicts &amp; disasters All topics Related posts Dispatch from the Philippines: Government must create a new economic futureposted on February 25, 2014 2013: Annus Horribilis for Humanitarian Crisesposted on January 10, 2014 Rihanna, Madonna, are you listening?posted on November 19, 2013 Learn more Typhoon Haiyan damaged millions of trees—a vital source of income for farmers. Now portable sawmills are helping those farmers turn some of that devastation into profit. Watch the video (800) 776-9326 info@oxfamamerica.org Boston, MA 226 Causeway Street, 5th Floor, Boston, MA 02114 Washington, DC 1100 15th St NW, Suite 600, Washington, DC 20005 Contact us Blog My account Press Help Oxfam America Oxfam America Unwrapped © 2013 Oxfam America, Inc. All rights reserved. Oxfam America is a member of Oxfam, an international confederation of 17 organizations networked together in 94 countries, as part of a global movement for change, to build a future free from the injustice of poverty. Oxfam America is a 501(c)(3) organization. Gifts are tax-deductible to the full extent allowable under the law. Privacy &amp; Legal
Top Cookies Accessibility Text only Publications Site map Jobs Contact us Helping older people lead full and secure lives Helping older people live full and secure lives | Age helps A global movement for the rights of older people Press Network Policy Practical Advanced search options Home Who we are What we do Where we work Get involved Newsroom Resources Home | Blogs Typhoon Haiyan: Inspiring recovery, lasting damage Posted By Carolyn Canham at 13:09, 31 March 2014 Flying across the island of Leyte in the Visayas region of the Philippines, you cross vivid green patchworks of rice fields nestled between hills covered by ravaged coconut trees. The damage to the trees is clearly visible from the air.  This is the sight that greets you as you approach Tacloban – one of the areas most devastated by Typhoon Haiyan (known in the Philippines as Yolanda). The revival of the rice farming here has been made possible by the relief support provided so far, but long-term support is needed to rebuild the coconut industry and help communities establish diverse crops and more resilient livelihoods in the meantime. Stories of survival and loss The contrast between the glorious rice fields and the sad trees is mirrored within the communities affected by Haiyan. The older people who survived the disaster share countless inspiring stories of survival and recovery, and countless stories of lasting devastation and loss. For example, 76-year-old Lilia is working tirelessly – despite her grief – to rebuild the home she shared with a daughter and grandson who died during the typhoon. Like many of Haiyan&apos;s victims, their bodies – covered in rubble – were not found for over a month, despite remaining close to home. Leonila, 69, is distraught as she speaks about the destruction of the coconut trees that were her livelihood, yet glows with well-deserved pride as she shows us the vegetables she is growing among the ruins. 76-year-old Rosario&apos;s rice, which was grown with some assistance from fertiliser provided by HelpAge International and its local partner, the Coalition of Services of the Elderly (COSE), is already being harvested, but her home still lies in ruins. Desire for independence and self-sufficiency Alpunso, proud and strong at 72, is a carpenter who lost all his equipment in the storm; he wants badly to replace it so he can return to work to support his family. This desire for independence and self-sufficiency is a reoccurring theme among the older people affected by Haiyan. No one wants to be dependent, or a burden. In fact, many have been supporting others in the recovery. But older people do still need help. Help to rebuild homes, livelihoods and lives. The immediate emergency relief phase is winding down, but rebuilding the communities has just begun. Find out more about our work to support older people and their families affected by Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines. Tags for this post typhoon haiyan, Philippines, East Asia, Emergencies Previous blog Next blog Comment on this blog Your comment Full name Email address Confirm text below Cannot read text? Show another All comments are moderated before they are published. Terms and conditions Log in or register Log in to update your blog Apply for a HelpAge blog Share Subscribe to HelpAge blogs e-Newsletter Stay updated! Sign up below... Privacy policy Donate to helpage Donate now Author profile Carolyn Canham Job title: Communications Manager, Philippines See full profile See all posts Recent posts Cambodia: Personal reflections of a volunteer Sustainable Development Goals for all ages... dare we dream? This World Health Day - let&apos;s tweet older people better! HelpAge European Affiliates meet to plan network&apos;s future Search blogs Tweets by @helpage Follow us Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube Disclaimer These blogs are personal reflections and do not necessarily reflect the views of HelpAge International. Who we are Our values and ambitions Our achievements Our history Our leadership Our board Our Affiliates Our ambassadors Accountability Finance Jobs What we do Disaster risk reduction and climate change HIV and AIDS Emergencies Health Rights Social protection Work Post-2015 process: What comes after the MDGs? Where we work Africa Latin America South Asia East Asia Pacific Caribbean Eastern Europe and Central Asia London European Union Occupied Palestinian Territories Get involved Support HelpAge Other ways to raise money for HelpAge Campaigns Newsroom Latest news Press room Features Life stories Photogalleries Resources Publications Ageing in the 21st Century Ageing data Films External links Practical guidelines Training and events Blogs Terms and conditions Privacy policy Website design by Chameleon Interactive   |   Powered by Treeline CMS
Contact Us UNICEF&apos;s Work People &amp; Partners About Us Donate Volunteer Shop UNICEF USA Blog Categories Philippines News Field Visits Events Advocacy Emergencies Partners Photos Videos Volunteers Subscribe RSS Home  Blog Texas Students Support Typhoon Haiyan Relief Efforts Students from Saint Mary&apos;s Hall display their donation to UNICEF, which they presented to U.S. Fund supporter Henry Halff (left). Photo credit: Liz Thompson. January 21, 2014 | By Liz Thompson Liz Thompson is Director of Marketing &amp; Public Relations at Saint Mary’s Hall. Students at Saint Mary’s Hall in San Antonio, Texas, raised $4,000 for Typhoon Haiyan relief efforts in the Philippines. The students presented the check to Henry Halff, a longtime supporter of the U.S. Fund for UNICEF, during their weekly Chapel service on December 9. Before Thanksgiving, Upper and Middle School students worked together to raise funds for victims of the typhoon, which hit the Philippines in early November. Thanks to the efforts of the Saint Mary’s Hall community, a total of more than $5,100 is expected to be donated for disaster relief. The Saint Mary’s Hall UNICEF Club, Project Teach, Asian Initiatives Club and the Middle School Community Service Council worked together to raise the funds through bake sales and an Out of Uniform Day for students, faculty and staff. Additionally, the French Club students raised around $1,000 that was donated to the American Red Cross. “This check means a lot to me and it means a lot to UNICEF,” said Halff during a special assembly to thank the students. “But the main thing is what it means for the families in the Philippines who were devastated by Typhoon Haiyan. It means that families will be able to take baths, wash their clothes, and brush their teeth with supplies brought in by UNICEF and paid for with this check.” Community service is an integral part of the Saint Mary’s Hall experience. Students in every division are encouraged to volunteer. By the time students reach the Upper School, community service has become a big part of their lives, often creating a lifelong passion for service to others. Learn more about how you can volunteer, fundraise or donate to UNICEF. Post a Comment Cancel reply Your email is never published nor shared. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website * Copy This Password * * Type Or Paste Password Here * Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes &lt;a href=&quot;&quot; title=&quot;&quot;&gt; &lt;abbr title=&quot;&quot;&gt; &lt;acronym title=&quot;&quot;&gt; &lt;b&gt; &lt;blockquote cite=&quot;&quot;&gt; &lt;cite&gt; &lt;code&gt; &lt;del datetime=&quot;&quot;&gt; &lt;em&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;q cite=&quot;&quot;&gt; &lt;strike&gt; &lt;strong&gt; You need to enable javascript in order to use Simple CAPTCHA. Security Code: Share on Facebook and Twitter: Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Other posts about: Emergencies Natural Disasters Philippines U.S. Fund Support Volunteers Other posts tagged with: disaster relief fundraising students supporters typhoon haiyan typhoon yolanda UNICEF UNICEF&apos;s Work Children With Disabilities Education Emergency Relief Immunization Malaria HIV/AIDS Nutrition Protection Water &amp; Sanitation U.S. Initiatives People &amp; Partners UNICEF Ambassadors Corporate Partners Foundation Partners NGO Supporters Sports Partners About Us Leadership Next Generation Audrey Hepburn Society Danny Kaye Society Regional Offices Special Events FAQ Jobs Contact Us Donate Now Volunteer With Us Shop For Gifts For the Media Follow UNICEF USA Facebook Twitter Google+ YouTube Instagram Pinterest © 2014 United States Fund for UNICEF. All rights reserved. (800) 367-5437 125 Maiden Lane, New York, NY 10038 FAQ Jobs Site Map Privacy Contact
