New Internationalist Home Magazine Books Blog Shop Subscribe Become a friend Get app About us We are 40! Politics Environment Economics Development Culture Humanrights Activism Corporations Country Argument More» Home › New Internationalist Blogs › Typhoon Haiyan, three months on By Maila Quiring | 0 Picking through the debris. People are now starting to build or repair homes. Wikimedia Commons under a Creative Commons Licence The foul odour and sight of the piles of debris that littered the side of the road caused the chatter in the car to fall eerily silent as we made our way through the devastation from Western to Eastern Samar in the Philippines. It was six days after Typhoon Haiyan struck. When I first saw the destruction my heart broke – I couldn’t comprehend what I was seeing. The storm – one of the worst on record – had ravished my homeland and killed over 5000. People were silent, motionless. But the pain was etched on their faces, clear for all to see. I travelled to Guiuan, Eastern Samar, which bore the brunt of the 8 November storm. Winds of up to 305 km per hour had torn homes and lives to shreds. The region was one of the poorest in the country even before Haiyan hit. Around 60 per cent of the population live in poverty and – many rely on coconut farming and fishing to earn enough to make ends meet. Yet as the waves, some higher than the coconut trees, swept in from the sea, they tore fishing boats and trees to shreds, leaving thousands without livelihoods. A total of 5.9 million people in the Philippines have seen their sources of income lost or disrupted, according to the UN. But although many had lost loved ones and their homes were reduced to rubble, their sheer determination to bounce back and get on with it, using whatever resources they can, was remarkable even then. It has now been three months since Haiyan. Homes are slowly being repaired with donated tools and materials, such as tarpaulin sheets and ropes. Debris has been cleared, leaving roads more accessible. Most communities have essential goods like jerry cans, tarpaulin sheets and blankets, and in some areas close to commercial centres, people are starting to get back to normality as small shops pop up selling much needed foods such as rice and canned meats.There is still a long way to go. The majority of those who live in Eastern Samar don’t have the money, or the means to earn enough to buy enough food to feed their families. The price of goods is high and volatile making the situation worse for many of the poor and vulnerable. Although people want to be self-reliant, it’s not possible yet, and many remain dependent on food distributions. Healthcare remains a concern for roughly a third of the population; sexual violence is on the rise. For these communities living at the end of dirt tracks, many kilometres from the nearest town or city, it will be a long time before their lives resemble those of before. In the immediate aftermath, the organization I work for – Coastal Core, a partner of Christian Aid – supplied communities with food and other items. Now it is starting to support communities through cash-for-work schemes, giving people the opportunity to help the clear up and rebuilding process by preparing felled coconut trees to make timber for shelter repairs. It also hands out grants to allow people to repair or restart their occupations. This will, in turn, provide them with the means to buy food for their families and materials to mend their homes. Other priority areas now include supporting fishing communities to repair their boats, introducing community gardening for growing vegetables, and restoring vital services that so many of us take for granted, such as clean water supplies. Wounds are not yet healed, homes remain in the coastal danger zone, and the means for local people to make a living are still very limited. Much more needs to be done to support communities to fully recover. In the long term, people will face frequent typhoons, flooding and erratic weather patterns. Learning more about climate change, how to build homes that are more likely to withstand storms, and what to do in emergency situations – especially in the more remote areas – are all ways to help guard against the challenges ahead. In the meantime, we will continue to give people the tools they need to re-build their lives and communities. Maila Quiring is a project officer with Coastal CORE, which is funded by Christian Aid. She works with communities in Samar to help them prepare for disasters and adapt to a changing climate. Support Christian Aid’s Philippines Typhoon Appeal  Permalink | Published on February 7, 2014 by Maila Quiring | 0 Themes: Disasters Philippines Tags: phillipines Typhoon Haiyan Leave a comment Write to the editor Email article Share digg reddit stumble upon facebook delicious Comments on Typhoon Haiyan, three months on Leave your comment Your name: Your email: Your comment:   Maximum characters allowed: 5000 Simple HTML allowed: bold, italic, and links Registration is quick and easy. Plus you won’t have to re-type the blurry words to comment!Register | Login ...And all is quiet. Subscribe to Comments for this article Guidelines: Please be respectful of others when posting your reply. Subscribe Renew Give a gift subscription Manage your subscription Get our free fortnightly eNews @newint RSS feed Most popular Most read Commented on Let&apos;s talk about sex in... the Arab world World Vision USA’s gay marriage U-turn is callous and cowardly The beginning of the end for the fossil-fuel spin machine The BBC having Clegg and Farage debate immigration is a bad-taste joke When did fair trade become a consumerist concept? What happened to unity in diversity? 2014-03-20 14 Mari Marcel Thekaekara Women on wheels raise money for adivasi human rights 2014-03-14 12 Mari Marcel Thekaekara Free money is no longer the stuff of utopia 2014-03-03 8 Bill Jordan Your language makes you who you are 2014-02-21 7 Jo Lateu The true cost of your cup of tea 2014-03-25 7 Marco Picardi Multimedia Videos Photos Podcasts More Videos Now Playing: Nada Videos from visionOntv&apos;s globalviews channel. Radio NI interviews - available in iTunes Related articles Popular tags Boardgame Human-rights Environment Poverty India Food Human Africa Oil Activism All tags New Internationalist Blogs New Internationalist hosts several different blogs, from the Editor&apos;s Blog to the Majority World Blog, the Gaza Blog to the Books Blog New Internationalist Blogs About Privacy Statement Contracts Jobs Contact Subscribe Institutional subscriptions Donate Friends of New Internationalist Advertise Blog Books Magazine Shop Easier English New Internationalist North American Office 2446 Bank Street, Suite 653 Ottawa, Ontario K1V 1A8 Canada New Internationalist reports on issues of world poverty and inequality. We focus attention on the unjust relationship between the powerful and the powerless worldwide in the fight for global justice. More about our work © Copyright New Internationalist 1973-2014. Except where otherwise noted, content on this site is licensed under Creative Commons.Except where otherwise noted, images on this site are © the attributed photographer/illustrator or representative agency. Top of page
English Français Español Jobs Press Reports Contact Skip to Navigation Search this site: Home › Emergencies › Philippines Typhoon Haiyan We have reached 550,000 people with humanitarian aid Philippines Typhoon Haiyan View Updates Donate now “Making sure people have clean water, food and safe sanitation is our immediate priority.” On 8 November 2013, Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines, affecting about 14 million people. Three months on, despite a huge national and international effort, humanitarian need across affected areas remains enormous. What Oxfam is doing Oxfam is working on the islands of Cebu, Leyte and Samar. We have reached almost 550,000 people with emergency relief during the first three months of the response. This includes supplying clean water to more than 200,000 people in Tacloban by supporting the government to repair and fix broken pipes. We have provided people with hygiene kits, sanitation services, cash support, water kits, rice seed, shelter materials, kits for pregnant women, hygiene education and cleaned waste and debris. We are also helping to prevent diseases, such as dengue and malaria spreading, in cooperation with the Department of Health in Tacloban. We are supporting fisherfolk and coconut farmers, particularly women, whose means of earning a living have been decimated by the typhoon and we are poised to provide start-up capital for small businesses, as well as equipment such as fishing nets and kits, seeds and fertiliser. We believe that, now is the time to focus on bolstering longer-term support to boost income so people no longer need to rely on emergency aid. It is crucial people are given the help they need to recover their ability to earn a living through replacement of or compensation for lost equipment or savings, as well as training and start-up capital. Read the blog: The art of saying &quot;Thank you&quot; The situation Super typhoon Haiyan (locally Yolanda) is another deadly warning of what much of the world can expect unless we can minimize climate change. Around 14 million people have been affected, some 6,000 killed, and an estimated 4.4 million displaced. Despite the massive logistical challenges and widespread destruction, the relief effort has helped millions to survive. Major gaps remain, however, especially in rural and hard to reach areas. Like most disasters, typhoon Haiyan has hit the poorest and the most vulnerable people the hardest. 4 out of 10 families in the affected provinces were living below the poverty line before Haiyan hit. Many families lived from small-scale agriculture, fishing and from low paid jobs and micro-enterprises in towns and cities. The typhoon affected a third of the country&apos;s rice growing areas and missing the current planting season will potentially leave millions of people without their staple food. Longer-term support is needed to help communities build back better and protect people against future shocks. The Reconstruction Assistance on Yolanda (RAY) plan issued by the Philippines government on 18 December outlines many positive principles and intentions. However, it lacks a bold vision for significantly tackling poverty and inequality. Justin Morgan, our Country Director in the Philippines, said: “It’s been immensely challenging to get aid through, but the response, both from the people of the Philippines and the international community, has been amazing. &quot;Our main concern now is supporting rural communities who have not received anything like adequate assistance yet and making sure people are able to quickly rebuild their homes, infrastructure and livelihoods, in a way that will make them more resilient to future shocks. “Typhoon Haiyan is the shape of things to come - with climate change set to increase the severity of typhoons in the region and projected sea level rises to compound the effects of deadly storm surge. The Philippines will need sustained support and programmes to prepare for more storms like this. Ultimately it also needs action on reducing the threat of climate change.” Stay up to date For the latest on our response, follow us on Twitter @Oxfam, or like our Oxfam in the Philippines on Facebook: Oxfam sa Pilipinas. For media inquiries, please contact your nearest Oxfam Media Officer. Last updated 4 February 2014. You may also like Blog: One month after Typhoon Haiyan: Rebuilding a just and resilient society Story: Philippines typhoon: A first step toward recovery in Tanauan Blog: Rising from the rubble in the Philippines Tags: donate emergency response humanitarian relief resilience typhoon Haiyan Yolanda Philippines Permalink: http://oxf.am/wZR Home About us Get involved Campaigns Development Emergencies Press room Blogs Emergencies Crisis in Syria Philippines Typhoon Haiyan Rice seed distribution: photos A first step toward recovery in Tanauan Aid kit distribution: photos When roofs started to fly Mali crisis Cyclone Phailin, India Pakistan floods Conflict in D.R. Congo Crisis in South Sudan Haiti earthquake 2010 Crisis in Gaza Yemen crisis Donate now Donate to Oxfam America Conflicts and Emergencies Blog Democratic Republic of Congo: Supporting women&apos;s rights and addressing the root causes of the conflict 7 April, 2014 - 12:07 An amazing display of solidarity #WithSyria! 19 March, 2014 - 13:59 Children’s hopes for the future of Syria take to the skies to mark the third anniversary of the crisis 13 March, 2014 - 18:37 Copyright © 2014 Oxfam International. All rights reserved. Contact Privacy Accessibility Site map Read our blog Get Oxfam RSS Feeds What&apos;s RSS? Oxfam America Oxfam Australia Oxfam-in-Belgium Oxfam Canada Oxfam France Oxfam Germany Oxfam Great Britain Oxfam Hong Kong Oxfam India Oxfam Intermón (Spain) Oxfam Ireland Oxfam Mexico Oxfam New Zealand Oxfam Novib (Netherlands) Oxfam-Québec Oxfam Italy Oxfam Japan
Turn autoplay off Turn autoplay on Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off Jump to content [s] Jump to site navigation [0] Jump to search [4] Terms and conditions [8] Edition: UK US AU Your activity Email subscriptions Account details Linked services Sign out Profile Beta About us About us Contact us Press office Terms of service Privacy policy Subscribe Guardian iPhone iPad edition Kindle Guardian Weekly Digital edition News US World Sports Comment Culture Business Money Environment Science Travel Tech Media Life &amp; style Data News World news Typhoon Haiyan RSS Typhoon Haiyan The latest news and comment on typhoon Haiyan Most recent Yeb Sano: unlikely climate justice star 1 Apr 2014: John Vidal meets the Filipino diplomat whose emotional reaction to typhoon Haiyan made him the face of UN climate talks Haiyan – harbinger of things to come? 31 Mar 2014: Lives lost, villages destroyed, communities devastated – and according to the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report, the Philippines disaster was just the beginning. John Vidal reports &apos;We expect catastrophe&apos; – Manila, the megacity on the climate frontline 31 Mar 2014: IPCC report warns life in the Filipino capital and other coastal cities will get much worse in many ways as temperatures rise Climate change could leave another 50 million people facing hunger by 2050 25 Mar 2014: Naderev M Saño: As governments convene in Japan to discuss environmental change, the need for action to avoid a global food crisis is clear Catholic survivors of Super Typhoon Haiyan revisited 14 Mar 2014: This photograph taken on November 18, 2013 shows survivors of Super Typhoon Haiyan marching in a religious procession in Tolosa on the eastern Philippine island of Leyte one week after the Super Typhoon devastated the area. Typhoon Haiyan: UK response praised by aid watchdog 11 Mar 2014: Swift reaction by Department for International Development mobilised wider donor support for Philippines, says Icai Typhoon Haiyan disaster response: how the relief effort worked 7 Feb 2014: Mark Tran: An emergency worker on how a combination of crises planning and government co-operation bolstered humanitarian efforts Tindog Tacloban: the mayor of a town rising up from Typhoon Haiyan - video Video (22min 09sec), 7 Feb 2014: With exclusive access to Tacloban&apos;s mayor, Tindog Tacloban follows three Filipinos as they try, 10 days after Haiyan, to piece together their lives and make sense of the world they once knew Tacloban three months after Typhoon Haiyan – in pictures 7 Feb 2014: The stop-start progress of rebuilding Tacloban, three months after one of the most powerful storms ever recorded obliterated it, is hampered by infighting between the Philippine presidential office of Benigno Aquino and the local mayor, Alfred Romualdez Typhoon Haiyan: feud hampers reconstruction of Tacloban 6 Feb 2014: Three months after storm, residents of Philippine city in need of better shelter and frustrated by speed of recovery effort Typhoon Haiyan&apos;s children: Vergel&apos;s story – video Video (1min 37sec), 6 Feb 2014: Before the typhoon, Vergel begged for fish from local fishermen to sell for rice so he could feed his younger brothers. Now the fish are gone Typhoon Haiyan sends coconut farming &apos;back to year zero&apos; 6 Feb 2014: Mark Tran: The Philippine storm destroyed 33m coconut trees as well fishing on Leyte island, leaving many people without a livelihood From &apos;tourist in the corridors of power&apos; to ambassador to the Philippines Guardian Professional, 6 Feb 2014: Foreign Office&apos;s Asif Ahmed, nominated in the British Muslim awards, on diversity at work and his response to typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan&apos;s children: Jhusmina and Adonis&apos; story – video Video (1min 39sec), 6 Feb 2014: Jhusmine is 19 years old. She recalls the trauma of escaping Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines when heavily pregnant Typhoon Haiyan&apos;s children: Anna Mae&apos;s story – video Video (1min 43sec), 5 Feb 2014: Anna Mae, 11, recounts the horror of how her house was destroyed by Typhoon Haiyan and how her family fled Next 1 2 3 4 5 1-15 of 181 for Typhoon Haiyan Related subjects World news Philippines Natural disasters and extreme weather Asia Pacific Hurricanes United States Show five more…… United Nations US foreign policy Australia Syria US military Environment Climate change Global climate talks COP 19: UN climate change conference | Warsaw Flooding Carbon emissions Show five more…… Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Sustainable development Climate change scepticism Drought Renewable energy Global development Aid Environmental sustainability Humanitarian response Hunger Cities and development Show five more…… Conflict and development Development data Food security Independent Commission for Aid Impact (ICAI) Migration Society Charities Voluntary sector Children Disasters Emergency Committee Child protection Show three more…… Contraception and family planning Health Volunteering Politics David Cameron Foreign policy Liberal Democrats Department for International Development (DfID) Ed Davey Show four more…… Ed Miliband Justine Greening Lord Ashdown Nick Clegg More Blogs Heed the warnings in extreme weather – or risk losing Earth 31 Jan 2014 08.01 EST The Philippines is devastated as much by unfair debt as typhoon Haiyan Tim Jones, 23 Dec 2013 02.00 EST Philippines disaster diary: putting a brave face on Christmas 20 Dec 2013 06.56 EST 2013: a year of disasters for Asia that we&apos;re all to blame for 19 Dec 2013 10.38 EST Philippines disaster diary: darkness and destruction on the road to Tacloban 8 Dec 2013 02.00 EST On the Guardian today Money When the French clock off at 6pm, they really mean it Technology Heartbleed: don&apos;t rush to update passwords, security experts warn World news Sriracha hot sauce production declared public nuisance by California city Life and style Flirtation or sexual harassment? Here&apos;s how to tell the difference World news Man suspected of 40 murders in US Science States look to naloxone to cure America’s overdose epidemic Today&apos;s best video We&apos;re Going on a Bear Hunt: &apos;The editors were so excited they were nearly weeping&apos; 25 years after its publication, author Michael Rosen and illustrator Helen Oxenbury discuss their children&apos;s classic James Lovelock: give up on saving the planet Gaia theorist previews exhibition at London&apos;s Science Museum The film to watch this week Peter Bradshaw recommends the Iranian film Willow and Wind Call of Duty and the explosive rise of pro gaming Meet the players, sponsors, coaches, parents and pundits On World news Most viewed Latest Last 24 hours 1.  Oscar Pistorius accused of egotistical behaviour with Reeva Steenkamp 2. Oscar Pistorius trial live - 10 April 3. Silvio Berlusconi&apos;s judgment day – you choose the sentence 4. Sriracha hot sauce production declared public nuisance by California city 5. Christine Lagarde: huge government and bank debts risk new financial crash More most viewed Last 24 hours 1.  MoD fails in attempt to stifle criticism of Afghan conflict 2. Oscar Pistorius admits he had no reason to fire shots that killed girlfriend 3. Oscar Pistorius: &apos;I didn&apos;t have time to think&apos; - video 4. Russian MPs say Mikhail Gorbachev should be prosecuted for treason 5. France puts UN ambassador&apos;s residence in New York up for sale for $48m All today&apos;s stories Sponsored feature License/buy our content | Privacy policy | Terms of service | US advertising | A - Z index | About us © 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. ;
Working together to end poverty and injustice Search Go Our work Publications Our people Blog Oxfam America Policy &amp; Practice Oxfam America Unwrapped Press Donate Contact Us Help Home The Politics of Poverty Dispatch from the Philippines: A livelihoods crisis looms in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan The Politics of Poverty Ideas and analysis from Oxfam America&apos;s policy experts Dispatch from the Philippines: A livelihoods crisis looms in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan February 24, 2014 Posted by Ray Offenheiser Rainero and Vilma Silvano outside their home in Tanauan, Leyte. The coconut industry suffered widespread damage during Typhoon Haiyan, putting the livelihoods of over one million farming households at risk. The trees take 6-8 years to mature, so there is an urgent need for farmers to replant and find an alternative source of income. “We had almost one hectare of coconut trees and a rice field. All was destroyed. We started planting rice again but the newly-planted rice has been washed away by the rain,” says Vilma Silvano, a member of the Kabuyan Farmers Association. Photo: Eleanor Farmer / Oxfam Share this story: Restoring rural families’ livelihoods may be the biggest challenge that remains following Typhoon Haiyan. I’ve just returned from the Philippines. Despite the progress and recovery I saw, it was clear to me that restoring rural families’ livelihoods may be the biggest challenge lying before the government and the aid agencies that remain following Typhoon Haiyan/Yolanda. Community leaders, government officials, and aid workers can all see the looming livelihoods crisis. But realistic solutions to address immediate needs are hard to come by. The sugar, fisheries, and coconut sectors have not fared well. Major sugar mills in Leyte were totally destroyed by the storm. The storm decimated the sugar crop ahead of its peak harvest, leaving tens of thousands of seasonal sugar workers without any income. Sugar mills will be rebuilt, crops replanted, and workers will get back to work in a year. In the meantime, the workers will seek part-time work rebuilding homes or planting and harvesting rice. Thousands of fishermen and women across the region lost boats and gear—more than 30,000 boats were destroyed. Most of the boats are made of wood. Wood for boat building is now scarce, so people have been scrambling to find alternative solutions. The national government and aid agencies are now providing fishing communities with molds and materials to make fiberglass boats. It’s a new experience, and communities are slowly learning how to produce the boats. Getting fishermen and women back on the water as soon as possible is the priority. The coconut sector is the hardest hit of all the agricultural sectors. Some 33 million trees either downed or decapitated across a vast landscape of coastal plains and mountains. Coconut trees are valued for their coconut milk, copra, leaves and wood and they are a deep part of the cultural heritage. It takes ten years for a coconut tree to return to full production. Fast growing alternative varieties would not survive typhoons of a lesser velocity than Yolanda. Hundreds of thousands of tenant farmers live from the harvesting and processing of coconut trees. Their livelihoods are now in jeopardy. Oxfam has given coconut workers and farming cooperatives chainsaws and portable table saws to start milling downed trees to produce lumber for housing construction. There is great demand for the lumber, but the work is time bound. Downed coconut trees will attract an infestation of rhinoceros beetles that feed on downed trees and attack healthy ones. There is no way that all the downed trees can be milled within four months. In the meantime, Oxfam and other organizations will provide cash for work and milling equipment for teams to process as much as they possibly can. Tagged in cash for work, coconut farmers, disaster recovery, livelihoods, Philippines, Typhoon Haiyan, Typhoon Yolanda Share this story: Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website Comment Author bio Ray Offenheiser Raymond C. Offenheiser is the president of Oxfam America. Offenheiser, who has worked his entire career in the nonprofit sector, is a recognized leader on issues such as poverty alleviation, human rights, foreign assistance, and international development. More posts by Ray Offenheiser Related topics Conflicts &amp; disasters All topics Related posts Dispatch from the Philippines: Government must create a new economic futureposted on February 25, 2014 2013: Annus Horribilis for Humanitarian Crisesposted on January 10, 2014 Rihanna, Madonna, are you listening?posted on November 19, 2013 Learn more Typhoon Haiyan damaged millions of trees—a vital source of income for farmers. Now portable sawmills are helping those farmers turn some of that devastation into profit. Watch the video (800) 776-9326 info@oxfamamerica.org Boston, MA 226 Causeway Street, 5th Floor, Boston, MA 02114 Washington, DC 1100 15th St NW, Suite 600, Washington, DC 20005 Contact us Blog My account Press Help Oxfam America Oxfam America Unwrapped © 2013 Oxfam America, Inc. All rights reserved. Oxfam America is a member of Oxfam, an international confederation of 17 organizations networked together in 94 countries, as part of a global movement for change, to build a future free from the injustice of poverty. Oxfam America is a 501(c)(3) organization. Gifts are tax-deductible to the full extent allowable under the law. Privacy &amp; Legal
