SET EDITION:  U.S. INTERNATIONAL MÉXICO ARABIC TV:   CNN CNNi CNN en Español HLN Sign up Log in Home TV &amp; Video CNN Trends U.S. World Politics Justice Entertainment Tech Health Living Travel Opinion iReport Money Sports SHARE THIS Print Email More sharing Reddit StumbleUpon Delicious Prince Charles arranges mass vaccination for Typhoon Haiyan victims By Max Foster, CNN updated 8:22 AM EDT, Wed March 26, 2014 A child receives a measles vaccine in Manila, Philippines on January 21, 2014 following an upsurge in the virus. STORY HIGHLIGHTS Measles hit the Philippines in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan Prince Charles arranges for delivery of five million doses of measles, rubella vaccines The hope is that the vaccines will potentially save 5,000 lives London (CNN) -- Five million doses of measles and rubella vaccine will be delivered to the Philippines, following a donation organized by Britain&apos;s Prince Charles. The virus has ravaged the country since Typhoon Haiyan -- known as Yolanda in the Philippines -- hit on November 8 last year, leaving more than 6,000 dead and nearly 1,800 unaccounted for. According to the Filipino Department of Health, 15,600 cases of measles were reported during the first 10 weeks of 2014, compared to just 5,863 cases during the whole of 2013. The spread of the virus has been exacerbated by mass migration, with nearly four million people displaced by the devastating typhoon, according to the country&apos;s National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council. The immunization program will be mainly targeted at children aged from nine months to five year olds who are at most risk from the epidemic: the hope is that the plan will potentially save 5,000 lives. 5 things to know about measles Prince Charles was in India at the time when Haiyan hit the Philippines. He visited the Serum Institute in Pune, the world&apos;s largest manufacturer of measles vaccines, two days after the typhoon made landfall. It agreed to donate five million doses to the Philippines, to be delivered via International Health Partners (IHP), one of the Prince&apos;s charities. A Clarence House spokesperson said: &quot;The Prince of Wales was very moved when he heard about the devastation caused by Typhoon Yolanda in the Philippines, which developed during his visit to India in November 2013. &quot;After being informed of the offer of a donation by the Serum Institute of India to a cause of his choosing, The Prince was pleased to charge his charities, International Health Partners and the British Asian Trust, to ensure the donation would be part of the ongoing international response to Typhoon Yolanda. &quot;The Prince was delighted that the Serum Institute was able to make such a generous donation to this important and urgent cause, and he was very pleased that the institute and the two charities have been able to work so effectively with the Philippines Department of Health, the World Health Organization and UNICEF to bring about this agreement.&quot; Anthony Dunnett, president of IHP said: &quot;The pressing need to deliver a measles vaccination program in the Philippines demonstrates the ongoing impact of Typhoon Yolanda... We are extremely grateful to our patron, His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, for enabling this important donation.&quot; On Wednesday, IHP signed an agreement with the Philippine government to deliver the vaccines as part of a wider immunization program in September of this year. READ: The most infectious of all infectious diseases 0 Comments » SHARE THIS Print Email More sharing Reddit StumbleUpon Delicious Part of complete coverage on CNN Recommends How deep could the wreckage be? updated 11:35 AM EDT, Wed April 9, 2014 Indra Petersons analyzes how deep the Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 wreckage could be. Pistorius at the mercy of a &apos;bull dog&apos;? updated 11:51 AM EDT, Thu April 10, 2014 Prosecutor Gerrie Nel is known as the &quot;bull dog&quot; in South Africa&apos;s legal circles, and it&apos;s easy to see why. Refugee: &apos;It&apos;s a war on our soul&apos; updated 10:50 AM EDT, Thu April 10, 2014 Once a sleepy town, Arsal is now a makeshift home for refugees who feel like they have been treated like animals. Child bride disfigured for drugs updated 12:23 PM EDT, Thu April 10, 2014 A former child bride tells how her face was disfigured by a husband wanting drug money. A &apos;diamond ring&apos; in space updated 11:03 AM EDT, Wed April 9, 2014 Planetary nebula Abell 33 has taken on romantic proportions. Here&apos;s what astronomers found. The Prince, play date and a theft? updated 7:58 AM EDT, Thu April 10, 2014 Prince George had a play date with 10 babies in Wellington and the Prince was described as &quot;quite a bruiser.&quot; How to buy Chinese art updated 6:14 AM EDT, Thu April 10, 2014 With astronomical Chinese art prices making recent headlines it&apos;s hard not to wonder how one can elbow into the art market for a piece of the pie. Turning Crimea into &apos;Putinland&apos; updated 11:11 PM EDT, Tue April 8, 2014 Ukranian novelist Andrey Kurkov says war with Russia is on everyone&apos;s minds. India&apos;s new &apos;Womanifesto&apos; updated 7:02 AM EDT, Wed April 9, 2014 How central are women&apos;s rights to this year&apos;s elections? Many hope for real change. Indonesia&apos;s &apos;Obama&apos;? updated 9:08 PM EDT, Tue April 8, 2014 Meet the young, charismatic leader who could soon rule the country. Scenes from the field updated 10:09 AM EDT, Thu April 10, 2014 Browse through images you don&apos;t always see on news reports from CNN teams around the world. World&apos;s top 25 destinations updated 12:10 AM EDT, Tue April 8, 2014 You blinked and a quarter of the year flew by. It&apos;s time to plan a vacation. Home | Video | CNN Trends | U.S. | World | Politics | Justice | Entertainment | Tech | Health | Living | Travel | Opinion | iReport | Money | Sports Tools &amp; widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN mobile | My profile | E-mail alerts | Desktop Alerts | CNN shop | Site map | Contact us CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN México | CNN Chile | CNN Expansión العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts | © 2014 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Ad choices | Advertise with us | About us | Work for us | Help CNN Newsource | License Footage
Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Main Content Sign In/Sign Up Cart: 0 ($0.00) Español Fredericksburg, VA (22401) What We Do Red Cross Stories News &amp; Events Find Your Local Red Cross Shop Donate Funds Donate Blood Take A Class Ways to Help Get Assistance Global Red Cross Response Effort Underway in Wake of Typhoon Volunteers and staff working with food items at Philippine Red Cross HQ. Photo: Jarkko Mikkonen/Finnish Red Cross When responding overseas, the American Red Cross works closely with the affected Red Cross society to provide the level of staff support and assistance requested. Posted March 05, 2014 , Updated article Nearly four months on, the global Red Cross network continues to help families rebuild and rebound from Typhoon Haiyan—a storm that tore through the Philippines with record strength winds and high storm surges. Approximately 16 million people across 40 provinces were affected by Typhoon Haiyan and more than 1 million homes damaged or destroyed. Red Cross volunteers have been caring for people even before Typhoon Haiyan made landfall. Prior to the arrival of the storm, the Philippine Red Cross worked closely with local disaster authorities to support preemptive evacuations, helping move more than 125,000 families to safer shelters. The Philippine Red Cross also disseminated early warning messages and safety tips in areas along the path of the typhoon. When the storm made landfall, the global Red Cross network assisted survivors by delivering food, mosquito nets, medical care and other vital assistance to people in need. Despite blocked roads, destroyed infrastructure, and downed communication lines, the Red Cross was able to get water to more than 710,000 people in the first month and provided vital medical care—delivering 100 babies at a field hospital in Ormoc in its first 10 days. AMERICAN RED CROSS RESPONSE EFFORTS The American Red Cross has played a major role in helping support the global response by lending people, expertise and equipment to the massive effort. The American Red Cross has spent or committed $28 million and deployed 43 disaster specialists to the Philippines, thus far. Its disaster specialists have provided a wide range of support for sheltering activities and relief distribution, as well as technical expertise in mapping, telecommunications and information technology. With financial and technical support from the American Red Cross, the global Red Cross network has distributed cash grants to more than 57,000 families affected by the typhoon. These grants are empowering families to make their own decisions about how to rebuild. “Cash gives people the ability to decide what’s important to them and their family,” said Tracy Reines, head of the American Red Cross’s International Response Operations Center. “It’s efficient. It’s fast. And it’s dignified.” In past disasters, people have used cash to purchase items to meet pressing needs like seeds, school uniforms, bicycle parts and mattresses. The Red Cross has provided cash during previous emergencies, but this is the largest and most ambitious cash transfer effort yet. Houses, crops, the water supply and people’s livelihoods remain damaged, or in many cases, completely destroyed. For example, coconuts trees—a major cash crop in the local economy— were broken in half, meaning years of lost income or farmers. The global Red Cross network will remain active as people overcome these challenges and work to rebuild their lives. 7 Ways the Red Cross is Helpinig People after Typhoon Haiyan Tags: Philippines, Haiyan, Typhoon. About the American Red Cross: The American Red Cross shelters, feeds and provides emotional support to victims of disasters; supplies about 40 percent of the nation&apos;s blood; teaches skills that save lives; provides international humanitarian aid; and supports military members and their families. The Red Cross is a not-for-profit organization that depends on volunteers and the generosity of the American public to perform its mission. For more information, please visit redcross.org or visit us on Twitter at @RedCross. Related Disaster Specialists Spend the Holiday Season in the Philippines December 24, 2013 - Q &amp; A: Mapping the Effects of Typhoon Haiyan January 21, 2014 - See how you can help. Everyone can make a difference. Get Involved Give Blood Help change a life by donating blood or hosting a blood drive. Share a Story Join others who have given and received help. Flood App Get your family and home ready for a flood. The American Red Cross Flood app is the complete solution you need to understand and prepare for flooding and all that comes with it. Get the Flood App Swim App Help your child become a confident swimmer. The American Red Cross Swim app puts the 100 year old Learn to Swim program in the palm of your hand. Brush up on your water safety knowledge, play parent child games together and track your child’s progress in the class. Get the Swim App Pet First Aid App Take care of your furry family member. The American Red Cross Pet First Aid app puts veterinary advice for everyday emergencies in the palm of your hand. Get the app and be prepared to act when called upon. With videos, interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice it’s never been easier to know Pet First Aid. Get the Pet First Aid App Team Red Cross: Volunteer App Team Red Cross wants you! Join Team Red Cross to help provide the care and comfort needed to communities when the unthinkable occurs. Team Red Cross wants people with various backgrounds, talents, and skill levels. Everyone has something special to offer...including you. Make a difference and join Team Red Cross! Get the Volunteer App Wildfire App Be ready for wildfires with the Wildfire App by the American Red Cross. Get the latest state-by-state wildfire news and updates, prepare your family, home and pets, let loved ones know that you are safe even if the power is out – a must have for anyone who lives in an area that is susceptible to wildfires or has loved ones that do. Get the Wildfire App Tornado App Get your family and home ready for a tornado with the official Tornado App from the American Red Cross. The Tornado app puts everything you need to know prepare for a tornado – and all that comes with it – in the palm of your hand. With interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice it’s never been easier to be ready. Get the Tornado App First Aid App The official American Red Cross First Aid app puts expert advice for everyday emergencies in your hand. Available for iPhone and Android devices, the official American Red Cross First Aid app offers videos, interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice it’s never been easier to know first aid. Get the First Aid App Hurricane App Monitor conditions in your area or throughout the storm track, prepare your family and home, find help and let others know you are safe even if the power is out – a must have for anyone who lives in an area where a hurricane may strike or has loved ones who do. Get the Hurricane App Shelter Finder App The Red Cross Shelter Finder is available in the iTunes store and works on iOS devices. The Shelter Finder displays open Red Cross shelters and their current population on an easy to use map interface. Get the Shelter Finder App Earthquake App Be ready for an earthquake with Earthquake by American Red Cross. Get notified when an earthquake occurs, prepare your family and home, find help and let others know you are safe even if the power is out – a must have for anyone who lives in an earthquake-prone area or has loved ones who do. Get the Earthquake App Contact Us Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube Who We Are Mission, Vision, and Fundamental Principles Our History Governance Publications Career Opportunities Media Resources What We Do Disaster Relief Supporting America&apos;s Military Families Health and Safety Training &amp; Education Lifesaving Blood International Services Plan &amp; Prepare Prepare Your Home and Family Prepare Your School Prepare Your Workplace Types of Emergency Tools and Resources Our Supporters Corporate and Foundation Community Partners Individual Major Donors National Celebrity Cabinet Volunteer Involve Your School Host a Blood Drive Workplace Giving Fundraise © Copyright 2014 The American Red Cross Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Connect With Us FAQ Contact Us
Turn autoplay off Turn autoplay on Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off Jump to content [s] Jump to site navigation [0] Jump to search [4] Terms and conditions [8] Edition: UK US AU Your activity Email subscriptions Account details Linked services Sign out Profile Beta About us About us Contact us Press office Terms of service Privacy policy Subscribe Guardian iPhone iPad edition Kindle Guardian Weekly Digital edition News US World Sports Comment Culture Business Money Environment Science Travel Tech Media Life &amp; style Data News World news Typhoon Haiyan Tacloban three months after Typhoon Haiyan – in pictures The stop-start progress of rebuilding Tacloban, three months after one of the most powerful storms ever recorded obliterated it, is hampered by infighting between the Philippine presidential office of Benigno Aquino and the local mayor, Alfred Romualdez Tindog Tacloban: the mayor of a town rising up from Typhoon Haiyan - video Share Tweet this Email theguardian.com, Thursday 6 February 2014 20.47 EST Print this Share Contact us Send to a friend Sender&apos;s name Recipient&apos;s email address Your IP address will be logged Share Short link for this page: http://gu.com/p/3mgq6 StumbleUpon reddit Tumblr Digg LinkedIn del.icio.us Facebook Twitter Contact us Report errors or inaccuracies: userhelp@theguardian.com Letters for publication should be sent to: letters@theguardian.com If you need help using the site: userhelp@theguardian.com Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000 Advertising guide License/buy our content Joel, a fisherman who lost his boat and fishing equipment during the typhoon now earns a living selling scrap metal that he finds along the shore in Anibong Bay. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Joel and his partner May-May live in a house on stilts above the water in Anibong Bay that Joel built using wood salvaged from the storm wreckage and a tarpaulin provided by Oxfam. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Night falls in an area of Tacloban which gets most of its electricity from a wrecked ship’s generator. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Shops and small stores are opening three months after Typhoon Haiyan. In a badly-hit part of Tacloban, a shop offering phone credit has already been built and is well stocked. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Children play in Anibong Bay, Tacloban three months after the typhoon. Residents have been warned not live within 40 metres of the sea but many have nowhere else to go and erect shanty houses along the shoreline. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam A woman, who survived the typhoon by climbing up a steep hill, stands beside her temporary home. “I’m scared living here. When the tide comes up here, I’m very nervous that my house will be destroyed,” she said. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Houses on stilts have been built using wood salvaged from the storm wreckage and tarpaulin provided by Oxfam in Rawis, Anibong Bay, Tacloban. Photograph: El Girls wash their clothes on a stretch of coast in Tacloban where homes were flattened by the storm surge and ships crashing onto the shore. Oxfam has reached almost 550,000 people with relief in the first three months of the response, including clean water to more than 200,000 people by supporting the government to repair and fix broken pipes. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Along the typhoon’s devasting path more than 33 million coconut trees were destroyed by 195mph winds. It will take between six to eight years for the coconut plantations to grow back. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Share Tweet this Email Don&apos;t show again Hide On the Guardian today Money When the French clock off at 6pm, they really mean it Technology Heartbleed: don&apos;t rush to update passwords, security experts warn World news Sriracha hot sauce production declared public nuisance by California city Life and style Flirtation or sexual harassment? Here&apos;s how to tell the difference World news Man suspected of 40 murders in US Science States look to naloxone to cure America’s overdose epidemic Today&apos;s best video We&apos;re Going on a Bear Hunt: &apos;The editors were so excited they were nearly weeping&apos; 25 years after its publication, author Michael Rosen and illustrator Helen Oxenbury discuss their children&apos;s classic James Lovelock: give up on saving the planet Gaia theorist previews exhibition at London&apos;s Science Museum The film to watch this week Peter Bradshaw recommends the Iranian film Willow and Wind Call of Duty and the explosive rise of pro gaming Meet the players, sponsors, coaches, parents and pundits On World news Most viewed Latest Last 24 hours 1.  Oscar Pistorius accused of egotistical behaviour with Reeva Steenkamp 2. Oscar Pistorius trial live - 10 April 3. Silvio Berlusconi&apos;s judgment day – you choose the sentence 4. Sriracha hot sauce production declared public nuisance by California city 5. Christine Lagarde: huge government and bank debts risk new financial crash More most viewed Last 24 hours 1.  Record turnout across India largely peaceful in first big election day 2. MoD fails in attempt to stifle criticism of Afghan conflict 3. Oscar Pistorius admits he had no reason to fire shots that killed girlfriend 4. Oscar Pistorius: &apos;I didn&apos;t have time to think&apos; - video 5. Russian MPs say Mikhail Gorbachev should be prosecuted for treason All today&apos;s stories Sponsored feature License/buy our content | Privacy policy | Terms of service | US advertising | A - Z index | About us © 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. ;
Turn autoplay off Turn autoplay on Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off Jump to content [s] Jump to site navigation [0] Jump to search [4] Terms and conditions [8] Edition: UK US AU Your activity Email subscriptions Account details Linked services Sign out Profile Beta About us About us Contact us Press office Terms of service Privacy policy Subscribe Guardian iPhone iPad edition Kindle Guardian Weekly Digital edition News US World Sports Comment Culture Business Money Environment Science Travel Tech Media Life &amp; style Data News World news Typhoon Haiyan Philippines: survivors of typhoon Haiyan salvage the spirit of Christmas Most survivors are still dependent on aid and will be celebrating in the halls and classrooms operating as evacuation centres Share Tweet this Email Aya Lowe in Manila theguardian.com, Sunday 22 December 2013 13.38 EST Filipino children smile after receiving toys during a gift-giving in the devastated city of Palo in Leyte province. Photograph: Dennis M Sabangan/EPA When typhoon Haiyan tore through the southern Philippines last month, destroying towns, lives and livelihoods, the early Christmas decorations did not stand a chance. Maria Rose, a Filipino sociologist, had set up early for this year&apos;s festivities. Nothing is left. &quot;The typhoon destroyed my tree and decorations. But what&apos;s important now for Christmas is that I&apos;m together with my family,&quot; said Rose. Tacloban, the Philippine city that suffered the worst devastation from the super typhoon, which killed more than 6,000 and affected the lives of 11 million, is tentatively trying to regain its Christmas cheer. But in a city where bodies are still being recovered at an average of 25 a day and survivors are busy rebuilding their lives, it&apos;s hard to muster that spirit. &quot;Christmas will be very different,&quot; said Alan Ibañez, a resident of Tolosa, a town 15 miles outside Tacloban. &quot;Almost every family is in shock. In Tacloban, I know a nine-member family where only one survived. How do you think she can celebrate? I see the woman going every day to the mass grave where her loved ones are buried. &quot;There are mothers without children and children without mothers. Now everyone is just fixing their lives.&quot; Amid the destruction, the occasional effort to celebrate Christmas can be seen. Some survivors have found decorations amid the rubble and are putting up their own Christmas trees outside the skeletons of their houses, locals say. &quot;The majority of survivors are at the rebuilding stage,&quot; said John Javellana, a freelance photojournalist who visited Tacloban recently. &quot;They certainly won&apos;t buy Christmas decorations for now, but they do put them up when they happen to save some during the cleanup in order to have some sort of Christmas spirit – despite everything.&quot; Many residents who left the city in the aftermath to seek refuge with family elsewhere in the Philippines are trying to come home for the festive season. &quot;People are coming back for Christmas. I have one family who is staying with me who came back yesterday; they saw some of their neighbours coming back,&quot; said Neil Benedict Montejo, a member of congress as well as local business owner. The dawn masses, which take place every morning starting nine days before Christmas Day, are an important tradition in the Philippines. This year they have taken on extra poignancy in the wake of the disaster as Tacloban residents – 98% of whom are Catholic – turn to their faith for comfort. On the first day of the masses, thousands walked in darkness towards their damaged churches to give thanks and offer prayers for their loved ones. &quot;Before we had Christmas parties where we would exchange gifts but now there won&apos;t be any. What&apos;s important is for us to attend mass, thanking God that we survived,&quot; said Rose. Most survivors are entirely dependent on aid and will miss out on eating the lechon – or suckling pig – that usually crowns their Christmas feast. &quot;There will be no more lechon as almost all the pigs have died and some pigs that survived were butchered because there was no available food for the pigs,&quot; said Ibañez. Those who no longer have houses will be celebrating Christmas in the halls and classrooms that now serve as evacuation centres. Government organisations have made an effort to boost Christmas spirit. Lanterns set up by the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) around the St Niño parish and Tacloban airport will light up the city, which is still mostly reliant on generators. A 17-metre Christmas tree has been erected on the grounds of Tacloban city hall by the Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP). Prisoners created decorations out of used water bottles and galvanised iron pipes left behind by the storm. It will be an improvised Christmas this year in Tacloban but for those who survived Haiyan, it is a chance to be thankful for what they still have. Sign up for the Guardian Today Our editors&apos; picks for the day&apos;s top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning. Sign up for the daily email Print this Share Contact us Send to a friend Sender&apos;s name Recipient&apos;s email address Your IP address will be logged Share Short link for this page: http://gu.com/p/3yddd StumbleUpon reddit Tumblr Digg LinkedIn del.icio.us Facebook Twitter Contact us Report errors or inaccuracies: userhelp@theguardian.com Letters for publication should be sent to: letters@theguardian.com If you need help using the site: userhelp@theguardian.com Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000 Advertising guide License/buy our content Article history About this article Philippines: survivors of typhoon Haiyan salvage the spirit of Christmas This article was published on the Guardian website at 13.38 EST on Sunday 22 December 2013. It was last modified at 16.01 EST on Thursday 9 January 2014. World news Typhoon Haiyan · Philippines · Asia Pacific · Natural disasters and extreme weather Life and style Christmas More news More on this story Typhoon Haiyan: an aid worker&apos;s diary of a disaster Aid agency worker Sandra Bulling was part of a team that flew to the Philippines when it was hit by the devastating storm last month. This is what she saw The Philippines is devastated as much by unfair debt as typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan: the aftermath – in pictures Share Tweet this Email Don&apos;t show again Hide On the Guardian today Money When the French clock off at 6pm, they really mean it Technology Heartbleed: don&apos;t rush to update passwords, security experts warn World news Sriracha hot sauce production declared public nuisance by California city Life and style Flirtation or sexual harassment? Here&apos;s how to tell the difference World news Man suspected of 40 murders in US Science States look to naloxone to cure America’s overdose epidemic Today&apos;s best video We&apos;re Going on a Bear Hunt: &apos;The editors were so excited they were nearly weeping&apos; 25 years after its publication, author Michael Rosen and illustrator Helen Oxenbury discuss their children&apos;s classic James Lovelock: give up on saving the planet Gaia theorist previews exhibition at London&apos;s Science Museum The film to watch this week Peter Bradshaw recommends the Iranian film Willow and Wind Call of Duty and the explosive rise of pro gaming Meet the players, sponsors, coaches, parents and pundits On World news Most viewed Latest Last 24 hours 1.  Oscar Pistorius accused of egotistical behaviour with Reeva Steenkamp 2. Oscar Pistorius trial live - 10 April 3. Silvio Berlusconi&apos;s judgment day – you choose the sentence 4. Sriracha hot sauce production declared public nuisance by California city 5. Christine Lagarde: huge government and bank debts risk new financial crash More most viewed Last 24 hours 1.  Record turnout across India largely peaceful in first big election day 2. MoD fails in attempt to stifle criticism of Afghan conflict 3. Oscar Pistorius admits he had no reason to fire shots that killed girlfriend 4. Oscar Pistorius: &apos;I didn&apos;t have time to think&apos; - video 5. Russian MPs say Mikhail Gorbachev should be prosecuted for treason All today&apos;s stories Sponsored feature Today in pictures BBC Sports Personality of the Year – in pictures Bradley Wiggins capped his remarkable sporting year by taking home the big prize at the ceremony in London Dinner, dusk and dancing Russians: my best winter shot A glass of wine with a rough sleeper, Santa in trunks, a thousand partying Muscovites … in a My Best Shot special, top photographers pick the image that sums up winter for them Monkey adopts kitten – in pictures Kimon, an eight-year-old pet female long-tailed monkey, treats a kitten as her baby in Bintan Island, Indonesia License/buy our content | Privacy policy | Terms of service | US advertising | A - Z index | About us © 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. Share Tweet this ;
SET EDITION:  U.S. INTERNATIONAL MÉXICO ARABIC TV:   CNN CNNi CNN en Español HLN Sign up Log in Home TV &amp; Video CNN Trends U.S. World Politics Justice Entertainment Tech Health Living Travel Opinion iReport Money Sports SHARE THIS Print Email More sharing Reddit StumbleUpon Delicious A month later, Typhoon Haiyan death toll still rising in the Philippines By Susanna Capelouto, CNN updated 5:17 AM EST, Mon December 9, 2013 A man reconstructs his house in the bay of Tacloban, Leyte province, Philippines, on Wednesday, November 27, 2013. Typhoon Haiyan, one of the most powerful storms on record, hit the country&apos;s eastern seaboard on November 8, leaving a wide swath of destruction, including more than 5,000 deaths. A man rests on his damaged house along the shore in Tacloban on Monday, November 25. Road traffic moves past destroyed houses in Palo, Leyte province, on Sunday, November 24, weeks after typhoon Haiyan caused heavy damage to life and property in the Philippines. A woman rests inside the damaged Our Lady of Guadalupe shrine in Tacloban, Philippines, on Sunday, November 24. A woman looks over the devastated waterfront in Tacloban on November 24. Typhoon survivors walk down a road in Palo, Philppines, during a procession for typhoon victims on November 24. A vehicle lies in the water in Tacloban on Saturday, November 23. A man searches through the debris in Tacloban on November 23. A man scavenges piles of wood amid damaged container vessels on November 23 in Tacloban. Local people begin to help clear debris near the shoreline where several tankers ran aground on November 23 in Leyte. The death toll from the storm stands at more than 5,000, according to a government-run news agency. A man clears debris from in front of his home near the shoreline on November 23 in Leyte. Groups of men clear debris near the shoreline on November 23 in Tacloban. Survivors of Typhoon Haiyan inspect the damage to their houses in Tacloban, Philippines, on Friday, November 22. Filpinos clear rubble from a hard-hit area in Tacloban on November 22. An airplane lands in Tacloban as Antonio Lacasa rebuilds his house on Thursday, November 21. People carry a coffin through an opening in the wall of a public cemetery for burial in Tacloban on November 21. A member of the Philippine air force drops relief goods for survivors in Tolosa on November 21. Children blow bubbles in a destroyed market in Tacloban on Wednesday, November 20. Workers clear mud and debris in Tacloban on November 20. A boy climbs across debris in Tacloban on November 20. People at the airport in Tacloban react to a blast of wind from an aircraft on November 20. A man walks through water in the typhoon-ravaged city of Tacloban, Philippines, on November 20. A man sleeps on Tuesday, November 19, on a tanker that ran aground during Typhoon Haiyan in Tacloban. Firemen unload bodies November 19 for forensic experts to register and bury in a mass grave outside of Tacloban. Firemen unload more victims outside of Tacloban on November 19. A man fans the flames of a fire in Tanauan, Philippines, on November 19. Survivors salvage wood next to stranded ships in Tacloban on November 19. Philippine military personnel carry an injured survivor to an evacuation flight at the Tacloban airport November 19. People in Tacloban march in the rain November 19 during a procession calling for courage and resilience among survivors. People play cards by candlelight Monday, November 18, in Tacloban. A U.S. Navy helicopter delivers relief goods to typhoon victims in Ormoc, Philippines, on November 18. Men take food back to their families in Leyte on November 18. Countries all over the world have pledged relief aid to those affected by the typhoon, but damage to airports and roads have made moving the aid very difficult. People are held back as the U.S. Navy delivers aid from a helicopter in San Jose, Philippines, on November 18. A helicopter flies over a call for help in Ormoc on November 18. A man cleans up mud inside a church in the hard-hit city of Tacloban on November 18. A boy bathes November 18 at a Tacloban school turned into a temporary shelter. Hundreds of typhoon survivors are packed into a U.S. military airplane November 18 for evacuation from Tacloban&apos;s airport. Typhoon survivors run toward a passing U.S. Navy helicopter in San Jose on November 18. A boy holding a toy machine gun sits Sunday, November 17, on a ship that ran aground in Tacloban. People gather around a helicopter as it delivers relief supplies November 17 in Guiuan, Philippines. Filipinos board an HC-130 Hercules airplane as U.S. sailors carry relief supplies November 17 in Guiuan. Survivors clean mannequins found among the debris in Tacloban on November 17. A man leans against a statue of the Crucifixion before a Mass at Santo Nino Church in Tacloban on November 17. A man carries a piece of wood from the debris in Tacloban on November 17. Survivors wait in line in Tacloban for relief goods on November 17. A man looks over the devastation from his damaged home in Tacloban on November 17. A trapped resident braves the dust created by a U.S. Navy helicopter taking off Saturday, November 16, on Manicani Island, Philippines. Corpses are collected and loaded on trucks to be taken to mass graves in Tacloban on November 16. A victim&apos;s corpse floats on a river in Tanauan on November 16. A pregnant survivor waits to give birth in a hospital November 16 in Tanauan. A dead dog lies in front of a house destroyed by the typhoon in Tanauan. A man carries a bicycle as he walks through the ruins of a Tacloban building November 16. Survivors of the typhoon stand in a Tanauan street partially blocked by debris November 16. An elderly survivor walks past toppled cars outside a church in Tacloban on November 16. A man in Tanauan cleans meat after slaughtering his only cow that survived the typhoon. Survivors gather in Tacloban to await transport to a neighboring province on November 16. Men carry a coffin toward a Leyte cemetery on November 16. A survivor cooks dinner in front of his damaged home in Marabut, Philippines, on Friday, November 15. Toppled coconut trees dot a mountain in an area devastated by the typhoon in Leyte province. A typhoon survivor keeps her husband alive by manually pumping air into his lungs after his leg was amputated at a Tacloban hospital November 15. The hospital has been operating without power since the typhoon. A survivor reacts to the damage at a residential area in Tacloban on November 15. Typhoon victims are treated in the lobby of a Tacloban hospital on November 15. Philippine Army soldiers carry the body of a civilian in Tanauan on November 15. Residents wait to board a Singaporean cargo plane at the Tacloban airport on November 15. Many survivors have converged on the city&apos;s airport to wait for flights. Search and retrieval teams carry a body bag in Tacloban on November 15. Haiyan survivors carry food that a U.S. military helicopter dropped off in Guiuan on Thursday, November 14. Dozens of bodies are placed near Tacloban City Hall on November 14 as workers prepare a mass grave on the outskirts of the hard-hit city. A girl plays inside her house amid the devastation in Tacloban on November 14. A Filipino soldier hands out bread to survivors in Maraboth, Philippines, on November 14. A boy takes cover from rain while waiting for an evacuation flight from Tacloban&apos;s airport November 14. Workers arrange bodies at a mass burial site at a Tacloban cemetery November 14. The weary wait for evacuation from Tacloban on November 14. A truck lies in the water in Hernani, Philippines, on November 14. Children play with fallen power lines near a damaged school in Guiuan on November 14. Teresa Mazeda hangs laundry in the ruins of her Tacloban home on Wednesday, November 13. Nina Duran searches for belongings at her family&apos;s destroyed house in Tacloban on November 13. Survivors walk through the ruins of their neighborhood outside Tacloban on November 13. A man sits in front of his destroyed business November 13 in Tacloban. A family, desperate to charge their mobile phones to search for family and friends, tries to use a ceiling fan to generate electricity November 13 in the Philippine province of Cebu. An injured man in Tacloban rests beneath a picture of Jesus Christ on November 13. A man takes a shower amid the rubble in Tacloban on November 13. A rescue team wades into Tacloban floodwater to retrieve a body on November 13. Residents take shelter in a Tacloban church on November 13. Residents make their way through a destroyed neighborhood in Tacloban on November 13. A boy cycles past a coffin left on a street in Tacloban on November 13. A man looks at his destroyed home November 13 in Tacloban. Body bags are lined up in Tacloban on November 13. Survivors prepare to board a military plane November 13 at the Tacloban airport. Men walk through smoke as they burn debris from a Tacloban church on November 16. An aerial view of Tanuan shows signs pleading for help and food November 13. Soldiers help a woman after she collapsed November 13 while waiting in line to board a military plane at Tacloban&apos;s airport. Survivors wait to be evacuated from Tacloban on November 13. An injured survivor gets carried on a stretcher before being airlifted from Tacloban&apos;s airport November 13. A survivor begins to rebuild his house in Tacloban on November 13. Evacuees wait to board a military aircraft in Leyte on Tuesday, November 12. People walk through damage in Tacloban on November 12. A young man waits at the airport November 12 in hopes of being evacuated from Tacloban. A woman comforts a crying relative as a plane leaves the Tacloban airport November 12. A man sits crying on a packed aircraft in Tacloban on November 12. Debris lays scattered around a damaged home near the Tacloban airport on November 12. A girl sits inside a bus as she waits for a ferry in Matnog, Philippines, on November 12. Police line up bodies for processing in Tacloban on November 12. People in Tacloban pass debris on November 11. Survivors in Tacloban board a military plane bound for the Philippine capital of Manila on November 11. Residents carry bags of rice from a Tacloban warehouse that they stormed November 11 because of a food shortage. A woman in Tacloban walks amid the debris of destroyed houses on November 11. People make their way across a flooded street in Shangsi, China, on November 11. Haiyan moved toward Vietnam and south China after devastating the Philippines. Buildings lie in ruins on Eastern Samar&apos;s Victory Island. Emily Ortega rests on November 11 after giving birth to Bea Joy at an improvised clinic at the Tacloban airport. U.S. Marine Corps Osprey aircraft arrive at Manila&apos;s Villamor Airbase to deliver humanitarian aid on November 11. People ride past destruction in Tacloban on Sunday, November 10. A body lies amid the Tacloban devastation on November 10. People cover their noses to block the smell of bodies in Tacloban on November 10. Bodies of victims lie along a Tacloban road on November 10. A large boat sits aground, surrounded by debris in Tacloban on November 10. People walk past the Tacloban devastation on November 10. People stand under a shelter in Tacloban. A girl peeks out from a makeshift shelter in Tacloban. Typhoon survivors wait to receive relief goods at the Tacloban airport on November 10. A woman mourns in front of her husband&apos;s dead body November 10 in Tacloban. Fallen trees litter the ground at the Tacloban airport on Saturday, November 9. A resident passes victims&apos; bodies on a Tacloban street November 9. People in Tacloban carry a victim of the typhoon November 9. A vehicle lies amid Tacloban debris on November 9. People walk past a victim left on the side of a road in Tacloban. A resident passes an overturned car in Tacloban on November 9. Rescue workers carry a woman about to give birth November 9 at a makeshift medical center at the Tacloban airport. An airport lies in ruins in Tacloban. Astronaut Karen L. Nyberg took a picture of the typhoon from the International Space Station on November 9. Women walk past fallen trees and destroyed houses in Tacloban on November 9. Residents scoured supermarkets for water and food as they slowly emerged on streets littered with debris. A soldier pulls a cable inside the devastated airport tower in Tacloban. Tacloban houses are destroyed by the strong winds caused by the typhoon. Dark clouds brought by Haiyan loom over Manila skyscrapers on November 8. A woman carries a baby across a river November 8 at a coastal village in Las Pinas, Philippines. A resident walks along a fishing village in Bacoor, Philippines, on November 8. A house in Legazpi, Philippines, is engulfed by storm surge November 8. A child wraps himself in a blanket inside a makeshift house along a Bacoor fishing village. A woman and her children head for an evacuation center November 8 amid strong winds in Cebu City, Philippines. Huge waves from Haiyan hit the shoreline in Legazpi on November 8. A fisherman lifts a post to reinforce his home at a coastal village in Las Pinas on November 8. A resident unloads nets off a fishing boat in Bacoor on November 8. Residents reinforce their homes in Las Pinas on November 8. The storm approaches the Philippines in this satellite image taken Thursday, November 7, by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Workers bring down a billboard in Makati, Philippines, on November 7 before Haiyan makes landfall. Philippine Coast Guard personnel stand in formation beside newly acquired rubber boats after a blessing ceremony in Manila on Wednesday, November 6. The boats were to be deployed to the central Philippines in preparation for Haiyan. HIDE CAPTION Photos: Typhoon Haiyan Photos: Typhoon Haiyan Photos: Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Photos: Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan &lt;&lt; &lt; 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 109 110 111 112 113 114 115 116 117 118 119 120 121 122 123 124 125 126 127 128 129 130 131 132 133 134 135 136 137 138 139 140 141 142 143 144 145 146 &gt; &gt;&gt; STORY HIGHLIGHTS Death toll from Typhoon Haiyan rises to almost 6,000, and many are still missing 12 million people have been affected by the storm that hit a month ago U.S. military spent $32 million on recovery aid; USAID is still providing food (CNN) -- One month after Typhoon Haiyan tore through six Philippine islands, the death toll stands at 5,924 and 1,779 people are still missing, according to government figures released Sunday. More than 12 million people have been affected by the monster typhoon that left behind catastrophic scenes of destruction and despair when it made landfall on November 8, the government said. It left entire communities without immediate access to food and medical care. Report: 10 million affected by Haiyan Several countries, including the United States, have been aiding in the recovery. According to the Pentagon, the military effort, dubbed Operation Damayan, cost $32 million. At their peak, the relief efforts involved more than 13,400 U.S. military personnel, 66 aircraft and 12 naval vessels. Two weeks ago, the U.S. scaled down its operation in the Philippines, but USAID continues to provide food and support as the recovery continues. READ: The grim task of recovering Tacloban&apos;s dead INTERACTIVE: Panoramic photo shows Haiyan devastation READ: Astronaut Karen Nyberg captures Typhoon Haiyan from space CNN&apos;s Stefan Simons contributed to this report. 0 Comments » SHARE THIS Print Email More sharing Reddit StumbleUpon Delicious Part of complete coverage on Typhoon Haiyan Panorama shows Haiyan wreckage updated 8:12 PM EST, Tue November 19, 2013 A dozen body bags line the street in Tacloban -- one of the towns hardest hit by Super Typhoon Haiyan -- as locals walk through the destruction of what used to be their homes. Cadaver dogs aid in typhoon recovery updated 3:07 PM EST, Tue November 19, 2013 Cadaver dog teams are on the ground in the Philippines, helping to locate victims still buried in the rubble. &apos;The Filipino spirit is alive among us&apos; updated 5:02 AM EST, Tue November 19, 2013 CNN&apos;s Airmie Jarin-Bennett, an expat Filipino, returned to her native land after Typhoon Haiyan. Nothing prepared her for what she found there. Desperate mom finds lost family updated 11:27 PM EST, Mon November 18, 2013 As thousands of traumatized typhoon survivors struggled to escape the stricken city of Tacloban, Gina Ladrera was desperate to get back in. Drone&apos;s view of typhoon devastation updated 8:49 AM EST, Mon November 18, 2013 Karl Penhaul reports from the middle of the Tacloban devastation using a drone camera to get a bird&apos;s eye view. Amphibious ships join relief effort updated 12:37 PM EST, Mon November 18, 2013 The USS George Washington is expected to leave the Philippines once two amphibious ships arrive there Wednesday, officials say. Golfer loses eight relatives to typhoon updated 8:00 AM EST, Mon November 18, 2013 The golf community is rallying around Jason Day after it emerged the Australian lost eight members of his family during the devastation wreaked by Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines. Celebs help raise money for Haiyan aid updated 4:41 PM EST, Mon November 18, 2013 The aftermath of Haiyan and the need for aid has celebrities working phones and taking donations. Max Foster reports. Typhoon aid boosts U.S. soft power updated 11:26 PM EST, Mon November 18, 2013 As an expression of hard power, they don&apos;t come bigger or more fearsome than the USS George Washington. A baby born in wreckage clings to life updated 3:21 AM EST, Mon November 18, 2013 The tiny, baby girl barely moves as she lies wrapped in a bundle of yellow plastic and green cloth on a peeling brown mattress made for a child far larger than she. US aircraft carrier boosts relief effort updated 9:04 PM EST, Mon November 18, 2013 The USS George Washington is on the front lines of the aid mission in the Philippines. CNN&apos;s Anna Coren reports. Typhoon aftermath: Religion as solace updated 1:12 AM EST, Mon November 18, 2013 The day after the typhoon, Father Edwin Bacaltos stepped out of the compound of the Church of Our Mother of Perpetual Help in central Tacloban and began his work. Interactive: Haiyan&apos;s path of disaster updated 12:33 AM EST, Fri November 15, 2013 Explore stories from typhoon survivors, relief workers, and officials from eight regions across the Philippines. A mother&apos;s grief: I wish I was dead updated 6:47 PM EST, Sun November 17, 2013 A distraught mother who lost her young sons in the tidal surge of Super Typhoon Haiyan feels her life is over. Video shows moment typhoon hit updated 2:45 PM EST, Sun November 17, 2013 This video shows how strong the storm surge was during Super Typhoon Haiyan. Philippines survivors crowd airport updated 9:02 AM EST, Sun November 17, 2013 CNN&apos;s Anna Coren reports from Tacloban&apos;s airport as Typhoon Haiyan survivors wait to evacuate. Many waiting for help in remote areas updated 9:21 AM EST, Fri November 15, 2013 The Philippine govt. is defending its efforts against accusations people there are not getting desperately needed help. How to help Typhoon Haiyan survivors updated 2:21 PM EST, Fri November 22, 2013 How charities and nongovernmental organizations from around the world are responding to the disaster, and how you can help them make a difference. Photos: Typhoon Haiyan updated 6:54 PM EST, Wed November 27, 2013 The storm affected 4.3 million people in 36 provinces and displaced more than 340,000. Children among Haiyan victims updated 6:33 PM EST, Wed November 27, 2013 Typhoon Haiyan, one of the strongest storms in recorded history, left thousands of victims in its wake. Typhoon Haiyan relief efforts updated 6:24 PM EST, Wed November 27, 2013 Troops and aid organizations help Filipinos struggling to survive the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan, one of the strongest storms in recorded history. Hear typhoon slam into the Philippines updated 6:59 PM EST, Mon November 11, 2013 CNN reporters capture sounds and images of Typhoon Haiyan&apos;s devastating trek through Tacloban, Philippines. Town crushed by &apos;giant hand&apos; updated 7:40 AM EST, Mon November 11, 2013 &apos;I was gob-smacked as we made our final approach into the ruins of the airport in Tacloban,&apos; says CNN&apos;s Ivan Watson. Photos: Haiyan&apos;s wrath from above updated 9:58 AM EST, Sat December 7, 2013 Flattened forests and flooded villages in the Philippines seen from the air. Home | Video | CNN Trends | U.S. | World | Politics | Justice | Entertainment | Tech | Health | Living | Travel | Opinion | iReport | Money | Sports Tools &amp; widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN mobile | My profile | E-mail alerts | Desktop Alerts | CNN shop | Site map | Contact us CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN México | CNN Chile | CNN Expansión العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts | © 2014 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Ad choices | Advertise with us | About us | Work for us | Help CNN Newsource | License Footage
Deseret News Archives: 1850-1987 Share Connect with us ✖ Facebook Twitter Google+ Pinterest Get Updates Profile Info User Account ✖ Login Register NATIONALEDITION BETA Visit the National Edition Why the &apos;Heartbleed&apos; bug is a major threat to your online life Mickey Rooney and faith: Hollywood legend&apos;s belief in Christ All eyes of the nation focused on the 10th Circuit Court Home Blogs Topics Lists Movies Columnists Watch It Utah Politics Business Education Salt Lake County Utah County Davis County Police/Courts Legislature Weather Immigration Utah Wire U.S. &amp; World Sports Jazz BYU Utes USU RSL Bees High School Rock Watch It Scores and Stats On TV NFL MLB WSU Grizzlies UVU SUU Sports Wire Sports Picks Moneywise Sponsored By: Opinion Editorials Op-Eds Letters Political Cartoons Faith LDS General Conference Featured Faiths Mormon Times LDS Church News Mission Reunions Faith Wire Family Marriage &amp; Parenting Family Media Movie Guide Calendar TV Listings Family Life Wire Obituaries Video BrandView Reducing the financial burden for young missionaries Sponsored by 5 ways to help out new (and future) missionaries Sponsored by High school business camp turns students into business pros Sponsored by View All Advertise with us Report this ad LDS Church continues to aid in recovery efforts following Typhoon Haiyan Print Font [+] [-] 1 Comment » By Sarah Jane Weaver, Church News staff writer Published: Monday, March 3 2014 12:26 p.m. MST Updated: Monday, March 3 2014 12:26 p.m. MST View 10 photos » Gemmer Esperas and his wife, Analyn Esperas, sit in a new, sturdy house Gemmer constructed with help from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The couple lost their only child, 6-year-old Annammer, during Typhoon Haiyan. Now, as part of local recovery efforts, Gemmer is receiving training in carpentry and tools from the LDS Church. Sarah Jane Weaver, Deseret News Summary Three months after Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines, recovery is underway. More Coverage Surviving the typhoon: Fear, faith and miracles for 10 LDS sister missionaries trapped in the Philippines Typhoon recovery: Sleepless nights for those in search of help and giving help The real work now begins to ease suffering in the Philippines Before and after: Typhoon&apos;s raw reality gives clarity to survivors Lessons learned in the Philippines: Gratitude and action TOCLOBAN, Philippines — On the day Typhoon Haiyan caused the water to rise in Tocloban, Analyn Esperas held her only child close. Annammer, 6, was scared; she wrapped her arms around her mother’s neck and held tight. The pair stayed inside until the wind took their roof. Then the water came. “We didn’t expect that the water would get so high,” recalled Esperas. “We didn’t have a chance to get to a higher place.” As they tried to escape, the wind and water carried them into a rice field. Esperas clung to a piece of Styrofoam; Annammer clung to her. “It was terrible,” said the mother. When a huge wave hit the pair, the Styrofoam that held them afloat broke in half; Esperas lost both pieces. As they began to swim, a second wave pushed the mother and daughter underwater. They came up for air as a third wave — the biggest wave — struck. A large piece of wood carried by the current dug into Esperas’ chest. Recovering from the force of the impact, Esperas spoke to her daughter. She wondered out loud if they could survive the storm. She was still talking when she realized Annammer was gone — carried away by the third wave. Moving forward It has been more than three months since Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines on Nov. 8, yet the storm’s signature remains. Trees and power lines lay broken and mangled. Rubble is piled along the streets. And foundations or empty shells of homes stand as a reminder of the storm’s strength. Locals — wanting visitors to understand what they went through — continually point to the places they laid their dead. It could be weeks, or months, before electricity returns to Tacloban. The cost of fruits and vegetables, sent here from Manila, is high. And gasoline, which is now needed to power generators as well as automobiles, is still an expensive necessity. But recovery is underway. Roads are clear. Vendors walk the street selling their wares. New homes dot the landscape. And the mountain, brown only weeks ago, is filled with lush, green growth. Analyn Esperas and her husband, Gemmer Esperas, are also recovering. Sitting on the floor of a new, sturdy home — built by Gemmer through a housing construction program provided by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — they talk of Annammer, Typhoon Haiyan and of moving forward. Storm surge Analyn Esperas said the moments after losing her daughter were like a horrible dream. She had expected high winds and rain. What she didn’t expect — or understand — was a storm surge. Three times she dove under the black water. “I didn’t find her.” Another survivor spoke to the mother. “Don’t look for her anymore,” the woman said. Out of strength and freezing, Esperas could not move. But when a large snake slithered along her back, she found herself climbing onto a roof. “I moved because of the snake. That is why I survived.” Once on the roof, Esperas began to vomit black water. The water also poured from the mother’s nose and ears. She waited on the roof for the wind to stop. Then she resumed her search for Annammer. Recovery efforts Typhoon Haiyan destroyed more than 1.1 million homes in the central Philippines. The deadliest typhoon on record in the country, the storm left more than 6,100 people dead, injured 28,000 and displaced 4.1 million. Some 1,785 people remain missing, according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council in the Philippines. After the disaster, the LDS Church sent relief supplies and partnered with local and international relief organizations to assist with food, shelter, water purification, debris removal and livelihood restoration projects. More than 100 days later, the church is still there and the organization’s recovery efforts continue. Typhoon victims “feel like the church is paying attention to them,” said Elder Brent H. Nielson of the Seventy and president of the church’s Philippines Area. “They know we are all in this together and we are not going to leave them alone.” Everything was different Gemmer Esperas was working as a security guard on the day Haiyan stole his daughter. Because there was no sea surge where he was working, he didn’t know the water level was rising at his home. When he returned after work, everything in his community was different. Houses had been ripped from their foundations. Black mud and water consumed the landscape. Twenty-three people died in the house next to his; in total, 74 of his neighbors died. When Gemmer located his wife, there was a nail in her foot, bruises on her body and a large cut on her leg. A Mormon doctor from Manila gave Analyn Esperas a tetanus shot and treated her wounds. For three days the couple searched for their daughter. When they found Annammer’s body, Gemmer held his daughter and looked for her wounds, trying desperately to understand her final moments. But there wasn’t a scratch on the little girl. Annammer’s mother protected her from everything but the sea, he said. &apos;One nail at a time&apos; When Elder Ian S. Ardern of the Seventy and a member of the Philippines Area Presidency first visited Tacloban after Haiyan, he could not find words to describe what he saw — and he was grateful for that. Those sights “will linger in my mind much longer than I want them too,” he said. He wondered how people could rebuild after such a catastrophe. Then he saw a local man with a discarded piece of wood and a hammer. He was pulling an old nail out of the wood. ”I thought, that is where you begin. That is where these Filipinos will begin. They will begin one nail at a time.” Tony San Gabriel, manager for self-reliance in the Philippines, said the LDS Church plans to help with reconstruction. After Typhoon Haiyan, the church immediately set programs in place to provide relief and help members rebuild, restore and retool, he said. “We thought, ‘How do you teach self-reliance to a people who were ravaged by a perfect storm?’ ” They began by helping the some 3,000 members who lost homes in the disaster rebuild. Working with the local Self Reliance Center and with the Perpetual Education Fund, local members are now entering a church-sponsored vocational program. The church is also helping them obtain basic tools and learn skills as carpenters, electricians and plumbers. Each trainee builds his or her own house — about 12 feet by 12 feet in dimension — and nine more homes. Then they receive a trade certificate. “We married the opportunity for livelihood and the need for shelter,” said San Gabriel. “It was a magic formula.&quot; To date, the church has constructed 921 homes through the project. But the organization is building more than homes, said Elder Ardern. “In the face of disaster, we are building people.” Strength to continue In the days after losing his daughter, Gemmer Esperas gathered abandoned sheets of corrugated metal and built a new home. But the gaps in the metal did not protect the couple from the wind or the rain. Most of the time they were forced to stand. They could not sleep. Then a counselor in the bishopric of their LDS ward, Joy Operio, found them. “Go to the church for shelter,” he told them. That night in the LDS meetinghouse they slept for the first time since Annammer&apos;s death. Before the storm, church leaders had been working with the couple — both Latter-day Saints — to attend the LDS temple. They were saving money to travel to Cebu. “We pray to ask Heavenly Father to have strength to continue,” said Gemmer Esperas. “Because of the gospel I learn at church, I have the courage that someday my daughter and my wife and I will be together. That is the reason we continue.” Temporary shelter The LDS Church’s home construction program is not only taking place in Tacloban, but in areas across the disaster zone, said Jairus Perez, a project manager for LDS Humanitarian Services. “This is just a temporary shelter,” he said. “But for most members this is already a permanent home.” He said the church will finish building all the homes by May 15. It wants to build the homes quickly and help the program participants qualify for some of the 250,000 construction jobs available in the area. “We are doing our best to provide for them and minimize their suffering,” Perez said. He is also distributing flashlights and lanterns. “Most place are still in darkness — no electricity,” he said. “We are directly helping people,” he said, “giving them the light that they need and the hope.” Brightening Tacloban Gemmer Esperas is working as part of a five-man construction team, sponsored by the LDS Church. Using tools provided by the church, the team built the Esperases&apos; house and has constructed six additional homes. When the team has completed 10 homes, members will receive construction certificates. Then they will be paid by the church to build additional homes and help train others. Gemmer Esperas said it felt good to build his house, which is 12 feet by 14 feet. His wife feels safe in the home. “I am very comfortable here,” she said. Now they just need to select a color of paint, provided by the church, and complete the project. There are many bright colors available. Church leaders hope the colors will literally brighten Tacloban. The Esperases don’t have to think about the color they will choose. Gemmer speaks without hesitation; he will paint their home pink. It was Annammer’s favorite color. Email: sarah@desnews.com Related Stories Surviving the typhoon: Fear, faith and miracles for 10 LDS sister missionaries trapped in the Philippines Typhoon recovery: Sleepless nights for those in search of help and giving help The real work now begins to ease suffering in the Philippines Popular Comments See all 1 comment » J.A. Jones Calgary, 00 It is so important to have follow up articles after major disastrous events. This was a great article that showed a small part of the suffering and tragedy following a major typhoon. It also highlighted ways that they are rebuilding and recovering More.. 5:42 p.m. March 3, 2014 Top comment Comments Leave a comment » DeseretNews.com encourages a civil dialogue among its readers. We welcome your thoughtful comments.— About comments About the Author Sarah Jane Weaver Sarah Jane Weaver is the assistant editor of the LDS Church News, where since 1995 she has covered, among other things, LDS Welfare Services and Church Education. Her favorite assignments include reporting on LDS Church more .. Connect: Advertise with us Report this ad What You May Have Missed Closing the gap: Why are more black women dying of breast cancer? For the old and young, it&apos;s a tough time to be in the job market Visiting monk teaches Utahns how to &apos;listen for God&apos; throughout day Sign up for news updates Advertise with us Report this ad Most Popular Across Site In Faith LDS adults to get new course outlines for... Former Soviet gold medal-winning gymnast... What the same-sex marriage movement is really... Popular quotes from April 2014 LDS general... Hansen family shares friendly relationship... 184th Annual General Conference talk... Mickey Rooney and faith: Hollywood legend&apos;s... World-renowned blogger celebrates Provo City... LDS adults to get new course outlines for... Former Soviet gold medal-winning gymnast... Alex Boye and One Voice Children&apos;s Choir... What the same-sex marriage movement is really... BYU football position breakdown: Spring camp... Utah Jazz: Dallas star Dirk Nowitzki changes... Same-sex marriage advocates making more noise... Dick Harmon: Schemes of BYU offensive... Get The Deseret News Everywhere Subscribe Mobile Facebook Twitter RSS Email Most Commented Across Site In Faith Women seeking priesthood march again to... 149 What the same-sex marriage movement is... 35 Facebook event challenges Latter-day... 30 New leaders called to serve in growing... 25 LDS adults to get new course outlines... 24 &apos;Noah&apos; blockbuster has almost... 17 Defending the Faith: Four testimonials... 13 Wright Words: Meet the boy who put an... 12 Same-sex marriage advocates making more... 183 Women seeking priesthood march again to... 149 Utah same-sex marriage debate shifts to... 83 Why some liberals are uneasy about... 82 In our opinion: A mom and a dad 82 Supreme Court turns down appeal in New... 77 Does Mozilla CEO ousting portend new... 71 Supreme Court turns deaf ear on New... 67 Advertise with us Report this ad Home Utah U.S. &amp; World Sports Moneywise Opinion Faith Family Obituaries Home » Blogs Topics Lists Movies Columnists Watch It Utah » Politics Business Education Salt Lake County Utah County Davis County Police/Courts Legislature Weather Immigration Utah Wire Sports » Utah Jazz Sports Picks BYU Cougars Utah Utes Utah State Aggies Real Salt Lake Salt Lake Bees High school sports Rock Harmon Watch It Scores and Stats On TV NFL MLB Weber State Wildcats Grizzlies Utah Valley Wolverines Southern Utah University Sports Wire Opinion » Editorials Op-Eds Letters Political Cartoons Faith » Featured Faiths Mormon Times LDS Church News Mission Reunions Faith Wire Family » Marriage &amp; Parenting Family Media Movie Guide Calendar TV Listings Family Life Wire Special Sections » Education Week LDS General Conference Mormons in America Olympics Outdoor Retailer Rugby Sports Picks Sundance Film Festival Utah Blaze Utah Grizzlies Download our Mobile Apps Print Subscription About us Contact us FAQ Feedback Jobs RSS E-Edition Privacy policy Terms of Use Legal notices Advertise with us Mobile Apps Advertise with us Report this ad
Search: Radio TV Shop News Sport Local Children Science Environment more Topics help Header Promo Header Promo Home Just In Features Asia Pacific Australia Business Podcasts The World #TalkAboutIt Email Typhoon Haiyan: hundreds unburied after Philippines storm Updated December 29, 2013 23:12:55 Photo: Residents say more than a thousand victims of Super Typhoon Haiyan remain unburied weeks later. (AFP: Odd Andersen) Map: Philippines Residents say more than 1,000 victims of Super Typhoon Haiyan remain unburied, seven weeks after the Philippines&apos; deadliest storm. About 1,400 bodies, in sealed black body bags swarming with flies, lay on a muddy open field in San Isidro, a farming village on the outskirts of the destroyed central city of Tacloban. &quot;The stench has taken away our appetite. Even in our sleep, we have to wear face masks,&quot; said local housewife Maritess Pedrosa, who lives in a house about 20 metres from the roadside city government property. Haiyan killed 6,111 people and left 1,779 others missing on November 8, according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council. This made the storm, which also left 4.4 million people homeless, one of the deadliest natural disasters in Philippine history. Tacloban and nearby towns were devastated by tsunami-like giant waves unleashed by Haiyan which accounted for a majority of the dead. The council&apos;s spokesman, Reynaldo Balido, said he was unsure if the official death toll already included the corpses in San Isidro. Eutiquio Balunan, the local village chief, said government workers assigned to collect the typhoon dead began trucking them to San Isidro on November 10, where they have been exposed to the tropical heat and heavy seasonal rainshowers. There, state forensics experts try to identify the corpses, he told AFP. The processed bodies are then turned over to relatives, while those that are unclaimed are tagged and taken to a mass grave at the city cemetery about three kilometres away. &quot;Our tally comprises those already tagged and processed by the local governments,&quot; Balido, the disaster council spokesman, told AFP. Mr Balunan, the village chief, said the processing of the bodies had been suspended over the Christmas weekend as the forensics experts went on holiday. &quot;We are requesting the city government to please bury the cadavers because our children and elderly residents are getting sick,&quot; he said. &quot;This place has become a fly factory.&quot; The corpses are guarded by eight policemen. One officer who asked not to be named said they are under orders to prevent them from being eaten by stray dogs. AFP Topics: death, storm-disaster, storm-event, philippines, asia First posted December 28, 2013 22:33:24 News in your language Bahasa Indonesia Khmer Tieng Viet Chinese Francais Tok Pisin India Votes 2014 Indonesian elections 2014 Studying in Australia: FAQ Rich indigenous culture Del Irani This week #TalkAboutIt delves into Australia&apos;s rich indigenous culture. Del Irani speaks to one of Australia&apos;s biggest popstars, Jessica Mauboy. Royals honour NZ war dead The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge honour New Zealand&apos;s war dead at a sombre ceremony before delighting crowds on a walkabout. Samoans showcase kilikiti Heather Jarvis for Radio Australia Melbourne&apos;s Samoan community has held a tournament for their own unique version of cricket, known as kilikiti. Joko Widodo&apos;s presidential tilt Jakarta&apos;s governor Joko Widodo has emerged as the frontrunner in the latest opinion polls for July&apos;s presidential elections in Indonesia. Asia Millions vote in crucial third phase of Indian elections Widodo begins search for coalition partners in Indonesia Aircraft detects another possible signal in search for MH370 Gas pipeline project proposed for Abbot Point Kidnappers demand $11m ransom for Chinese tourist Abbott says &apos;Team Australia&apos; in China to help build Asian century Lobbies accept Philippines reproductive health law ruling Jockeying begins for Indonesian presidential poll Calls to reset passwords as Heartbleed bug puts data in danger Cambodian leaders &apos;close&apos; to reaching agreement Pacific Refugees will be temporarily resettled on Nauru: Morrison Royal couple honour New Zealand&apos;s war dead Nauru questions cancellation of UN inspection Floods leave half the people in Honiara without access to water Tonga aims for netball success at Pacific Games Australia announces $3m aid package for Solomon Islands flooding Wind power could be an option in the Pacific Solomon Islands looks to rebuild after floods New Pacific exporter survey breaks new ground Floods leave thousands in Solomons evacuation centres Video Detained Australian journalist Peter Greste denied bail Corruption and the economy the major issues in Indian elections Improved access for Chinese investors key to Australia-China FTA Australia-China FTA likely by end of year Race on to fix Heartbleed bug in encryption software before hackers take advantage Indian election turns into &apos;battle of Bollywood&apos; Royals unveil new portrait of Queen Elizabeth II Students injured in knife rampage at American high school Oscar Pistorius cross-examined in Reeva Steenkamp murder trial American student injures 20 others during knife rampage Audio Teenager arrested after mass stabbing at US high school Pistorius faces gruelling day in the dock Funerals continue after Solomons flash floods PM Tony Abbott talking trade and mending fences in China Terrorist bombing attacks in Southern Thailand The story behind the Norman Borlaug tribute video Queen welcomes Irish president to the UK Jakarta governor Joko Widodo the favourite for Indonesian presidency John Kerry believes Moscow is behind new unrest in Ukraine UN workers shot dead in Somalia Site Map Sections Home Just In Features Tags Asia Pacific Australia Business Online Channels Listen Live Podcasts Interact Contact Us ABC Sites ABC Online News Home ABC International This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time) Change to mobile view ABC Home About the ABC Careers ABC Services ABC Contacts © 2014 ABC Conditions of Use Privacy Policy
Français | عربي | Mobile | About IRIN 10 April 2014 * * Advanced Search humanitarian news and analysis a service of the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs        - Select a country - Afghanistan Angola Bangladesh Benin Botswana Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Central African Republic (CAR) Chad Comoros Republic of Congo Cote d&apos;lvoire Djibouti Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) Egypt Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Ethiopia Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea-Bissau Haiti Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Jordan Kenya Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Niger Nigeria occ. Palestinian terr. Pakistan Papua New Guinea Philippines Rwanda Sao Tome and Principe Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Somalia South Africa South Sudan Sri Lanka Sudan Swaziland Syria Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Turkmenistan Uganda Uzbekistan Vietnam Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Sign up for email alerts | Login Home Analysis Global Issues Africa AFRICA HOME PAGE EAST AFRICA Kenya South Sudan Sudan Tanzania Uganda GREAT LAKES Burundi Central African Republic Congo DRC Rwanda HORN OF AFRICA Djibouti Eritrea Ethiopia Somalia SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Botswana Comoros Lesotho Madagascar Malawi Mauritius Mozambique Namibia Seychelles South Africa Swaziland Zambia Zimbabwe WEST AFRICA Benin Burkina Faso Cameroon Cape Verde Chad Cote d&apos;Ivoire Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea Equatorial Guinea Guinea-Bissau Liberia Mali Mauritania Niger Nigeria Sao Tome and Principe Senegal Sierra Leone Togo Western Sahara IRIN film series:Trouble in Timbuktu Africa RSS Feed Asia ASIA HOME PAGE Afghanistan Bangladesh Cambodia Indonesia Iran Kyrgyzstan Laos Myanmar Nepal Pakistan Papua New Guinea Philippines Sri Lanka Tajikistan Thailand Timor-Leste Turkmenistan Uzbekistan Vietnam Featured film:Kachin - Still on the run Asia RSS Feed Middle East MIDDLE EAST HOME PAGE Egypt Iraq Israel Jordan Lebanon Libya OPT Syria Yemen Featured film: Yemen – A scarred generation Middle East RSS Feed PlusNews Film Photo In-Depth Hear our Voices Weeklies Themes Aid Policy Children Conflict Disaster Risk Reduction Early Warning East Africa Food Crisis Economy Education Environment Flu Food Security Gender Issues Governance Health &amp; Nutrition HIV/AIDS Human Rights Migration Natural Disasters Refugees/IDPs Sahel Crisis Security Urban Risk Water &amp; Sanitation Your views are important to us. IRIN is currently reviewing its work and we need to understand your views and priorities. Click here to start the survey Read this article in: Français - عربي Philippine calamities in the shadow of Typhoon Haiyan Follow @{0} COMMENT EMAIL PRINT EASY READ SHARE Photo: Jason Gutierrez/IRIN It was only weeks after conflict erupted in Mindanao that an earthquake hit Bohol (file photo) MANILA, 28 January 2014 (IRIN) - In the wake of Typhoon Haiyan, the Philippine government is struggling to meet the needs of survivors in other areas of the archipelago that have experienced calamity as well as conflict. The Philippines went through back-to-back emergencies, starting with the  siege of Zamboanga City on the southern island of Mindanao by Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) rebels in September 2013. After barely recovering from a three-week standoff, a  7.2-magnitude earthquake hit the island of Bohol, some 360km to the north, in central Philippines on 15 October.  Finding home in Zamboanga “Shelter remains to be our biggest challenge,” said Wouter De Cuyper, a field officer for the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Zamboanga City, where more than 63,000 people were still displaced on 14 January. “Those who used to live in the areas most affected by the fighting, or whose houses were burned during the fighting, cannot go back to their homes yet,” said De Cuyper. An estimated 10,000  homes were destroyed by fire during the conflict. According to the Zamboanga City  Public Information Office (PIO), 834 families have been transferred to bunkhouses constructed by the local government and the International Organization for Migration (IOM), and there are plans to relocate more people so as to decongest the evacuation centres. “Temporary shelters have been constructed to accommodate 1,000 families. It is expected that by [the] first quarter of this year [2014], we will commence with the construction of on-site permanent shelter,” Maria Isabelle Climaco-Salazar, the mayor of Zamboanga, wrote to IRIN in a text message. But even identifying suitable sites - either transitional or permanent - to which displaced people could be transferred is problematic because of national policy on the non-establishment of coastal communities according to the Philippine Water Code’s article 51, which prohibits construction three metres from a coastline or riverbank in urban areas. The no-build zone is 20 metres in agricultural areas and 40 metres in forested ones. “We need to take into consideration that many of the IDPs [internally displaced persons] previously resided in houses on stilts in the coastal communities,” wrote Climaco-Salazar. “We estimate a 12-month timeframe wherein IDPs shall have returned to their places of origin, or [been] relocated to a place in proximity to their previous residences.” Under the Zamboanga Roadmap to Recovery and Rehabilitation Plan (Z3R), an estimated US$80 million will be needed to provide housing and infrastructure assistance. On 25 January, the government and the country’s largest Muslim group, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) announced progress toward a final peace deal to end decades of insurgency in the south. It is expected that this agreement, which will create an autonomous Muslim region with local powers, will be signed in the coming months. Quake in Bohol Shelter and relocation are also the biggest challenge on the central Philippine island of Bohol, where the October earthquake killed more than 200 people, displaced 300,000 others and destroyed more than 76,000 homes. A  report on 10 January 2014 showed that almost 600 families were still housed in evacuation centres, and many more were living in tents near their destroyed homes, or with extended family members. The national government’s Bohol Earthquake Action Plan says $46.8 million will be needed to address the needs of the more than 300,000 people affected by the calamity until April 2014. To qualify for assistance, families must have a total monthly income of less than $227. The national government has allocated $20.7 million for earthquake survivor housing assistance. So far, the national Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) has allocated emergency housing assistance of $227 to families with partially damaged homes, and “core” shelter assistance of $1,590 to those with totally damaged homes so they can start rebuilding more durable housing. Families must earn less than $227 monthly to qualify. But just as officials started identifying families most in need, a new catastrophe interrupted relief efforts. “Initial assessments of partially and totally damaged homes were started by the DSWD immediately after the earthquake. However, when [Typhoon Haiyan, locally called] Yolanda struck [elsewhere in the Central Philippines], DSWD personnel had to be reassigned to Yolanda areas,” said Liza Quirog, head of the government’s inter-agency coordinator for Bohol relief efforts. “We are finalizing the list of qualified beneficiaries today [27 January] so we can meet the target for the release of DSWD funds scheduled for this week,” Quirog said. Landslides and sinkholes Loisella Lucino, Bohol’s provincial director, noted that “There is also a problem of finding suitable settlement sites because areas have been declared as landslide-prone… [on] geo-hazard maps.” The  maps were prepared by the Mines and Geosciences Bureau of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (MGB-DENR), and classify defined areas as having low, moderate or high susceptibility to floods, flash floods and landslides. Quirog said six areas have been declared uninhabitable because they are prone to landslides or have sinkholes. Despite these challenges, the spokesman for the government’s Office of Civil Defence, Major Reynaldo Balido, assured IRIN that survivors’ needs will be met. “We will not forget the crises in Zamboanga and Bohol,” he said. “Budgets have been earmarked for the recovery of these two areas, and personnel from national government agencies have been assigned to oversee efforts.” as/pt/he Theme (s): Natural Disasters, [This report does not necessarily reflect the views of the United Nations] SHARE THIS STORY Discussion Guidelines Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. comments powered by Disqus LATEST REPORTS Scaling up accountability to communities Iraq fights back against polio Priced out of food in the CAR Hunger in Myanmar’s “dry zone” Lack of funds could freeze aid to Anbar Getting CAR back to school Filling Myanmar&apos;s Rakhine aid gap SHARE THIS STORY MORE REPORTS Prospects for peace in Mindanao Connectivity and emerging infectious diseases in Southeast Asia New displacements as Philippines nears final peace deal Philippines on watch for infectious disease outbreaks More aid for southern Philippine conflict zone MORE ON NATURAL DISASTERS Analysis: How effective is Pakistan’s disaster authority? Indonesia’s lagging volcano preparedness Jumble of needs complicate aid to Afghanistan’s displaced Indonesian eruption displaces people, buries crops Water brings change flowing in Pakistan’s Tharparkar Tweets about &quot;irinnews&quot; SLIDESHOW Learning to smile again FILM Haiti’s Homeless Hotel IN-DEPTH Youth in crisis: Coming of age in the 21st century When disaster strikes: the response to the South Asian earthquake Between Two Stones - Nepal’s decade of conflict Our Bodies - Their Battle Ground: Gender-based Violence in Conflict Zones Bitter-Sweet Harvest: Afghanistan&apos;s New War World AIDS Day 2002 LATEST ANALYSIS Scaling up accountability to communities Iraq fights back against polio Myanmar peace and development scorecard NGO-NGO learning: what works? Managing Pakistan’s disasters MOST READ Kariba Dam collapse fears and disaster preparedness in Zimbabwe Asylum seekers left high and dry in Indonesia Fighting an invisible enemy in DRC Lack of funding threatens aid response in Iraq&apos;s Anbar Province Getting CAR back to school Read this article in: Français - عربي Philippine calamities in the shadow of Typhoon Haiyan Follow @{0} COMMENT EMAIL PRINT EASY READ SHARE Photo: Jason Gutierrez/IRIN It was only weeks after conflict erupted in Mindanao that an earthquake hit Bohol (file photo) MANILA, 28 January 2014 (IRIN) - In the wake of Typhoon Haiyan, the Philippine government is struggling to meet the needs of survivors in other areas of the archipelago that have experienced calamity as well as conflict. The Philippines went through back-to-back emergencies, starting with the  siege of Zamboanga City on the southern island of Mindanao by Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) rebels in September 2013. After barely recovering from a three-week standoff, a  7.2-magnitude earthquake hit the island of Bohol, some 360km to the north, in central Philippines on 15 October.  Finding home in Zamboanga “Shelter remains to be our biggest challenge,” said Wouter De Cuyper, a field officer for the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Zamboanga City, where more than 63,000 people were still displaced on 14 January. “Those who used to live in the areas most affected by the fighting, or whose houses were burned during the fighting, cannot go back to their homes yet,” said De Cuyper. An estimated 10,000  homes were destroyed by fire during the conflict. According to the Zamboanga City  Public Information Office (PIO), 834 families have been transferred to bunkhouses constructed by the local government and the International Organization for Migration (IOM), and there are plans to relocate more people so as to decongest the evacuation centres. “Temporary shelters have been constructed to accommodate 1,000 families. It is expected that by [the] first quarter of this year [2014], we will commence with the construction of on-site permanent shelter,” Maria Isabelle Climaco-Salazar, the mayor of Zamboanga, wrote to IRIN in a text message. But even identifying suitable sites - either transitional or permanent - to which displaced people could be transferred is problematic because of national policy on the non-establishment of coastal communities according to the Philippine Water Code’s article 51, which prohibits construction three metres from a coastline or riverbank in urban areas. The no-build zone is 20 metres in agricultural areas and 40 metres in forested ones. “We need to take into consideration that many of the IDPs [internally displaced persons] previously resided in houses on stilts in the coastal communities,” wrote Climaco-Salazar. “We estimate a 12-month timeframe wherein IDPs shall have returned to their places of origin, or [been] relocated to a place in proximity to their previous residences.” Under the Zamboanga Roadmap to Recovery and Rehabilitation Plan (Z3R), an estimated US$80 million will be needed to provide housing and infrastructure assistance. On 25 January, the government and the country’s largest Muslim group, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) announced progress toward a final peace deal to end decades of insurgency in the south. It is expected that this agreement, which will create an autonomous Muslim region with local powers, will be signed in the coming months. Quake in Bohol Shelter and relocation are also the biggest challenge on the central Philippine island of Bohol, where the October earthquake killed more than 200 people, displaced 300,000 others and destroyed more than 76,000 homes. A  report on 10 January 2014 showed that almost 600 families were still housed in evacuation centres, and many more were living in tents near their destroyed homes, or with extended family members. The national government’s Bohol Earthquake Action Plan says $46.8 million will be needed to address the needs of the more than 300,000 people affected by the calamity until April 2014. To qualify for assistance, families must have a total monthly income of less than $227. The national government has allocated $20.7 million for earthquake survivor housing assistance. So far, the national Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) has allocated emergency housing assistance of $227 to families with partially damaged homes, and “core” shelter assistance of $1,590 to those with totally damaged homes so they can start rebuilding more durable housing. Families must earn less than $227 monthly to qualify. But just as officials started identifying families most in need, a new catastrophe interrupted relief efforts. “Initial assessments of partially and totally damaged homes were started by the DSWD immediately after the earthquake. However, when [Typhoon Haiyan, locally called] Yolanda struck [elsewhere in the Central Philippines], DSWD personnel had to be reassigned to Yolanda areas,” said Liza Quirog, head of the government’s inter-agency coordinator for Bohol relief efforts. “We are finalizing the list of qualified beneficiaries today [27 January] so we can meet the target for the release of DSWD funds scheduled for this week,” Quirog said. Landslides and sinkholes Loisella Lucino, Bohol’s provincial director, noted that “There is also a problem of finding suitable settlement sites because areas have been declared as landslide-prone… [on] geo-hazard maps.” The  maps were prepared by the Mines and Geosciences Bureau of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (MGB-DENR), and classify defined areas as having low, moderate or high susceptibility to floods, flash floods and landslides. Quirog said six areas have been declared uninhabitable because they are prone to landslides or have sinkholes. Despite these challenges, the spokesman for the government’s Office of Civil Defence, Major Reynaldo Balido, assured IRIN that survivors’ needs will be met. “We will not forget the crises in Zamboanga and Bohol,” he said. “Budgets have been earmarked for the recovery of these two areas, and personnel from national government agencies have been assigned to oversee efforts.” as/pt/he {1} ##LOC[OK]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## Copyright Notice About IRIN Jobs Mobile Feedback Other OCHA Sites Donors     Social Copyright © IRIN 2014. All rights reserved. This material comes to you via IRIN, the humanitarian news and analysis service of the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. The opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect those of the United Nations or its Member States. The boundaries, names and designations used on maps on this site and links to external sites do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the UN. Republication is subject to terms and conditions as set out in the IRIN copyright page.
Search Sign in to comment! Login World Home U.N. Conflicts Terrorism Disasters Global Economy Environment Religion Scandals Regions Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports On Air Fox News Fox Business Fox News Latino Fox News Radio Fox Nation Fox News Insider Menu FoxNews.com Search World Home U.N. Conflicts Terrorism Disasters Global Economy Environment Religion Scandals Regions Analysis Typhoon Haiyan deaths in Philippines passes 6,000 Published December 13, 2013 Associated Press Facebook 0 Twitter 0 Gplus 0 Dec. 9, 2013 - Typhoon survivor and district property custodian Norman Acala examines a book as he tries to save pieces from the school library at the Daniel Z. Romualdez Memorial Elementary School at typhoon-ravaged Tolosa town, Leyte province, central Philippines. Tens of thousands are living amid the ruins of their former lives, underneath shelters made from scavenged materials and handouts.AP MANILA, Philippines –  The death toll from Typhoon Haiyan that struck the central Philippines on Nov. 8 has passed 6,000 with nearly 1,800 people missing, officials said Friday. Twenty-seven bodies, all unidentified, were among the latest to be recovered under debris in typhoon-stricken coastal areas including the hardest hit city of Tacloban, said Maj. Reynaldo Balido, the spokesman for the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT The overnight tally pushed the overall death toll to 6,009 while 1,779 others remain unaccounted for, the government agency said, making the typhoon the deadliest natural disaster on record to hit the Philippines. Balido said that 20 to 30 bodies were still being found every day. Identifying cadavers in the advanced stage of decomposition and matching them with the missing is a difficult process and the reason why the number of the missing remains unchanged, he said. The homes of more than 16 million people also were either flattened or damaged by the typhoon, and officials said rebuilding will take at least three years. Social Welfare Secretary Corazon Soliman said that temporary bunkhouses and emergency shelters were being constructed and residents given cash in exchange for work, including repacking and hauling relief goods. &quot;We will provide materials to rebuild their houses, however, we stressed to the local governments that new shelters have to be built 40 meters away from the shoreline on high tide,&quot; she said. Advertisement World Videos Hope fades for Venezuela crisis talks Could China launch Crimea-style action in disputed islands? House considers denial of Iranian diplomat&apos;s visa Trending in World 1 More possible signal detected as Malaysia plane search area shrinks 2 In China, jar of French mountain air fetches $860 3 Chernobyl cap could be casualty of Ukraine crisis 4 Pistorius is untruthful, an egotist, prosecutor says 5 Flight 370 effort could soon shift from search to recovery Fox News Salutes More Sgt. Travis Mills defies odds after critical injury French and US volunteers tend to graves, honor lives of fallen WWII heroes USO opens new center for wounded warriors, families at Walter Reed Advertisement Site Index Sections Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather On Air Tools Live Video Trending uRreport Newsletters Alerts Blogs Mobile Podcasts Radio Fox News Store Apps &amp; Downloads About Careers College Students Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Contact Us Email Newsroom FAQ Media Relations Follow Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn RSS Newsletters Fox News Back to Top This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. Privacy - Terms - FAQ
Accessibility Links Skip to main content Skip to CBC accessibility page   CBC Global Navigation CBC.ca News News Menu Sports Sports Menu Music   Radio Radio Menu TV TV Menu My Region Menu   More CBC Menu   Watch Watch Menu Listen Listen Menu     CBC News World Major StoriesIn The News In the news Quebec Votes Flight MH370 Federal spending Tax Season CBC News Navigation Home World Canada Politics Business Health Arts &amp; Entertainment Technology &amp; Science Community Weather Video World Photo Galleries Typhoon Haiyan creates testing ground for crisis mappers Tech savvy population, willingness to try new ideas help country prepare for next disaster By Amber Hildebrandt, CBC News Posted: Dec 18, 2013 5:00 AM ET Last Updated: Dec 18, 2013 5:28 PM ET A month after Typhoon Haiyan, signs of progress in the hard-hit Leyte province are mixed. There are still challenges that the crisis mapping community hopes to help with. (Aaron Favila/The Associated Press) Related Stories United Nations says $12.9 billion in aid needed worldwide Philippines Typhoon Haiyan death toll tops 5,000 Filipino community grateful for Typhoon Haiyan generosity External Links MicroMappers Philippine Disaster Recovery Foundation Harvard Humanitarian Initiative UN OCHA Digital Humanitarian Network (Note: CBC does not endorse and is not responsible for the content of external links.) Celina Agaton recently returned to the Philippines, hoping to help out her homeland with her unique set of skills. “I’m really excited because it’s been about five years since I’ve wanted to do something like this for my home country,” said Agaton. The Filipino-Canadian, who grew up in Manila and Jakarta but now calls Toronto home, arrived in the devastated southeast Asian country in late November, about two weeks after the typhoon killed more than 6,000 and left 4 million displaced. Agaton, who&apos;s working in the country as a cross-sector community organizer, is part of a crisis-mapping community that emerged just before the 2010 Haiti earthquake and has transformed in the past three years from a loose group into a more formal entity relied upon by relief agencies in disasters. The so-called crisis mappers lend a technological helping hand to traditional humanitarian groups, finding ways to harness social media and use new, easy-to-use open-source tools to create live maps of damaged buildings and food needs in disasters. In the past month, 1,500 mappers made 4.2 million edits to help relief efforts in the Philippines — equivalent to about two years&apos; worth of work by a cartographer, said John Crowley, a researcher with the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative who studies the intersection of crisis mappers and traditional relief. &quot;I have never seen such a thing. It&apos;s incredible,&quot; said Crowley. &quot;And the data that we&apos;re getting is quite good.... We&apos;ll probably look at it as something to build a model for the next disaster.&quot; Disaster prone and technically inclined The modern concept of live crisis mapping began in Kenya when developers created an open-source platform, Ushahidi, to collect SMS reports of violence at polling stations during the 2007 election and then mapped them in real-time. Filipino-Canadian Celina Agaton spent time in the hard-hit city of Tacloban as part of her efforts to bring crisis mapping to her home country. (Courtesy of Celina Agaton) Since then, crisis mapping and other crowdsourcing tools have been used in some way or other in numerous disasters. “It’s very easy to use, so someone with zero technical expertise can set it up very quickly,” said Agaton. Some experts in the field suggest the disaster-prone Philippines may be a perfect testing ground for live crisis mapping and other tools. Andrej Verity, who works for the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UN OCHA), says there&apos;s a cultural willingness to try new ideas, a technically-inclined young population eager to help in disasters, a government open to new ideas, and general awareness about disasters. &quot;The population does not often forget about the humanitarian cause,&quot; the Saskatchewan-born Verity said in an email from Manila. About 20 tropical cyclones enter the island nation’s region each year, with about six to nine making landfall on one of the Philippines&apos; 7,107 islands. Located along the Ring of Fire, the disaster-prone country also suffers from numerous quakes, volcanic eruptions and landslides. Typhoon Haiyan, the Philippines&apos; deadliest typhoon, marks at least the second time real-time mapping has been used in the Philippines. From clipboards to MicroMappers Patrick Meier, who pioneered the new field of crisis mapping, recently returned from his first trip to the Philippines. He was working with UN OCHA, which he describes as &quot;one of the most forward-thinking, innovative groups out there.&quot; Though it’s Meier’s first time in the country, it’s his second time pairing up with UN OCHA to help in a Philippines disaster. MicroMappers was released shortly after Typhoon Haiyan to try harness the crowd in helping to sift through Tweets calling for help. ((Courtesy of MicroMappers)) Two days after Typhoon Bopha hit on Dec. 3, 2012, UN OCHA asked the Digital Humanitarian Network, a group of volunteer and technical communities co-founded by Meier and Verity, to help it sift through 20,000 tweets to map damaged homes, wiped-out roads and deaths. It helped create a picture of what kind of aid was needed most in different areas. This time, Meier used a micro-tasking tool called MicroMappers to get volunteers around the world to sift through tweets, categorizing them for use by the big aid agencies. Also in the works is an SMS short code, to be released early next year, where residents can text their ongoing needs. It&apos;ll be the first time since Haiti that the system will be used nation-wide. During that crisis, grassroots organizations set up the code only to be overwhelmed by thousands of Creole texts pouring in.  Now, those impromptu players in the disaster field have established themselves alongside the disaster relief bigwigs — and the two are working together. Crowley says even though the ingrained disaster response culture is to turn to the tools they already have, the emerging crisis mapping communities are helping them explore new tools. &quot;Don’t forget, we’re not very far away from a time when people carried around clipboards and push-to-talk radios,&quot; said Crowley.  He hopes that in the future, the time-consuming work done by the crisis mapping communities such as sifting through satellite images to find damaged buildings will free humanitarian agencies up to focus on high-level analysis. Combining crowds and algorithms Meier expects that the next stage for the community is using advanced computing to help make sense of the inundation of social media cries for help during a major emergency. As director of social innovation at the Qatar Foundation&apos;s Computing Research Institute, he&apos;s working with his team of data scientists to develop algorithms that could alleviate the burden on volunteers around the world by helping categorize tweets and handling other tedious tasks. &quot;It&apos;s combining the wisdom of the crowds with the power of algorithms, and doing that in a smart way so that we don&apos;t waste people&apos;s time,&quot; said Meier. Disaster relief is a field in dire need of efficient help. Whereas a decade ago, about 30 to 40 million people needed humanitarian aid each year, now it’s typically around 60 to 70 million, the United Nations says. On Dec. 16, the United Nations asked for a record $13 billion in aid it expects to need in 2014. Humanitarian costs are only going to rise, making it essential that the traditional agencies embrace new technologies and figure out how to incorporate the use of cellphones and social media that&apos;s changing the way they respond. Agaton, like many in the field, is eager to tap into the possibilities and has lofty visions for her time in the Philippines. &quot;I’m trying to sort of shift the role of crisis mapping here,&quot; said Agaton, who will be working on cross-sector mapping with the Philippine Disaster Recovery Foundation. She hopes to use live mapping to track the progress of aid, using social media to verify whether medical supplies and food get into the hands of those in need. For now, she’s busy with the dirty work of data collection — trying to synchronize the many ways agencies collect their data before a combination map can be put out. Whatever comes of it all, Agaton hopes to help her home country prepare for its inevitable next disaster. &quot;Monsoon season is going to happen within the next six months,&quot; said Agaton. &quot;And so we’re going to be in this very same situation all over again.&quot; Report Typo Send Feedback Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Submission Policy Note: The CBC does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted. By submitting your comments, you acknowledge that CBC has the right to reproduce, broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever. Please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines. Stay Connected with CBC News Mobile Facebook Podcasts Twitter Alerts Newsletter Must Watch Most Viewed Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370: Ship detects possible black box signals read comments Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370: Ships divert to aid Chinese who heard ping Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370: Underwater pings relocated read comments Malaysia Airlines MH370: Ship frantically trying to pick up &apos;pings&apos; read comments Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370: &apos;acoustic event&apos; detected by Australian ship Why Russia&apos;s Vladimir Putin confounds the West read comments Stabbing spree at Pennsylvania high school wounds 22 Oscar Pistorius murder trial: Pistorius apologizes Ukraine tensions flare as 60 hostages taken in east Oscar Pistorius murder trial: Pistorius breaks down, forcing adjournment Right Communications The National Canada&apos;s destination for original journalism and stories with added depth and context. The Lang &amp; O&apos;Leary Exchange On the day&apos;s biggest business stories. Weeknights at 7 p.m. ET on CBC News Network Don&apos;t Miss Breaking CBC to cut 657 jobs, will no longer compete for professional sports rights Breaking Stephen Colbert to replace David Letterman as The Late Show host Updated Patrick Brazeau facing assault, cocaine possession charges New More wine, less beer, Canadian drinking data shows New Wal-Mart, Best Buy win court battle against Quebec government New Aboriginal education bill meets 5 conditions outlined by First Nations Disabled woman crawls 8 hours for help after driving into trench Heartbleed bug&apos;s government impact may go far beyond Revenue Canada Malaysia Airlines MH370: New possible &apos;pings&apos; detected in jet search Eve Adams riding fight: MP warned to behave, but Tories will let her run Laurie Hawn tells committee potential for voter fraud is &apos;clear&apos; Updated Oscar Pistorius &apos;adapting&apos; his story as trial proceeds, prosecutor says Exclusive Dziekanski case: Police watchdog rejects complaints by Mounties Georges St-Pierre&apos;s knee surgery &apos;a success&apos; Fair Elections Act: Why Canadians are shrugging it off CBC Global Footer CBC.ca Aboriginal Books Contests Digital Archives Documentaries Kids Kids&apos; CBC Preschool Kids&apos; CBC Wonder World Music News Parents Program Guide Radio Sports Television Subscriptions CBC Player CBC Shop Corporate About CBC Transparency and Accountability Jobs Production Facilities Mobile Production Rentals Ombudsman CBC: Get the Facts Independent Producers Pitch a Radio or Audio Program Program and Content Sales Archive Sales Educational Sales Image Research Library &amp; Still Photos Consumer Recordings Digital TV Stay Connected Mobile RSS Podcasts Member Services:Newsletters &amp; Alerts CBC Links Terms Of Use Reuse &amp; Permissions Advertise Privacy Site Map Help Contact Us CBC Radio-Canada Copyright © CBC 2014 cbc.radio-canada.ca cbc.ca radio-canada.ca
Français | عربي | Mobile | About IRIN 10 April 2014 * * Advanced Search humanitarian news and analysis a service of the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs        - Select a country - Afghanistan Angola Bangladesh Benin Botswana Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Central African Republic (CAR) Chad Comoros Republic of Congo Cote d&apos;lvoire Djibouti Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) Egypt Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Ethiopia Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea-Bissau Haiti Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Jordan Kenya Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Niger Nigeria occ. Palestinian terr. Pakistan Papua New Guinea Philippines Rwanda Sao Tome and Principe Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Somalia South Africa South Sudan Sri Lanka Sudan Swaziland Syria Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Turkmenistan Uganda Uzbekistan Vietnam Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Sign up for email alerts | Login Home Analysis Global Issues Africa AFRICA HOME PAGE EAST AFRICA Kenya South Sudan Sudan Tanzania Uganda GREAT LAKES Burundi Central African Republic Congo DRC Rwanda HORN OF AFRICA Djibouti Eritrea Ethiopia Somalia SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Botswana Comoros Lesotho Madagascar Malawi Mauritius Mozambique Namibia Seychelles South Africa Swaziland Zambia Zimbabwe WEST AFRICA Benin Burkina Faso Cameroon Cape Verde Chad Cote d&apos;Ivoire Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea Equatorial Guinea Guinea-Bissau Liberia Mali Mauritania Niger Nigeria Sao Tome and Principe Senegal Sierra Leone Togo Western Sahara IRIN film series:Trouble in Timbuktu Africa RSS Feed Asia ASIA HOME PAGE Afghanistan Bangladesh Cambodia Indonesia Iran Kyrgyzstan Laos Myanmar Nepal Pakistan Papua New Guinea Philippines Sri Lanka Tajikistan Thailand Timor-Leste Turkmenistan Uzbekistan Vietnam Featured film:Kachin - Still on the run Asia RSS Feed Middle East MIDDLE EAST HOME PAGE Egypt Iraq Israel Jordan Lebanon Libya OPT Syria Yemen Featured film: Yemen – A scarred generation Middle East RSS Feed PlusNews Film Photo In-Depth Hear our Voices Weeklies Themes Aid Policy Children Conflict Disaster Risk Reduction Early Warning East Africa Food Crisis Economy Education Environment Flu Food Security Gender Issues Governance Health &amp; Nutrition HIV/AIDS Human Rights Migration Natural Disasters Refugees/IDPs Sahel Crisis Security Urban Risk Water &amp; Sanitation Your views are important to us. IRIN is currently reviewing its work and we need to understand your views and priorities. Click here to start the survey Read this article in: Français - عربي Philippine calamities in the shadow of Typhoon Haiyan Follow @{0} COMMENT EMAIL PRINT EASY READ SHARE Photo: Jason Gutierrez/IRIN It was only weeks after conflict erupted in Mindanao that an earthquake hit Bohol (file photo) MANILA, 28 January 2014 (IRIN) - In the wake of Typhoon Haiyan, the Philippine government is struggling to meet the needs of survivors in other areas of the archipelago that have experienced calamity as well as conflict. The Philippines went through back-to-back emergencies, starting with the  siege of Zamboanga City on the southern island of Mindanao by Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) rebels in September 2013. After barely recovering from a three-week standoff, a  7.2-magnitude earthquake hit the island of Bohol, some 360km to the north, in central Philippines on 15 October.  Finding home in Zamboanga “Shelter remains to be our biggest challenge,” said Wouter De Cuyper, a field officer for the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Zamboanga City, where more than 63,000 people were still displaced on 14 January. “Those who used to live in the areas most affected by the fighting, or whose houses were burned during the fighting, cannot go back to their homes yet,” said De Cuyper. An estimated 10,000  homes were destroyed by fire during the conflict. According to the Zamboanga City  Public Information Office (PIO), 834 families have been transferred to bunkhouses constructed by the local government and the International Organization for Migration (IOM), and there are plans to relocate more people so as to decongest the evacuation centres. “Temporary shelters have been constructed to accommodate 1,000 families. It is expected that by [the] first quarter of this year [2014], we will commence with the construction of on-site permanent shelter,” Maria Isabelle Climaco-Salazar, the mayor of Zamboanga, wrote to IRIN in a text message. But even identifying suitable sites - either transitional or permanent - to which displaced people could be transferred is problematic because of national policy on the non-establishment of coastal communities according to the Philippine Water Code’s article 51, which prohibits construction three metres from a coastline or riverbank in urban areas. The no-build zone is 20 metres in agricultural areas and 40 metres in forested ones. “We need to take into consideration that many of the IDPs [internally displaced persons] previously resided in houses on stilts in the coastal communities,” wrote Climaco-Salazar. “We estimate a 12-month timeframe wherein IDPs shall have returned to their places of origin, or [been] relocated to a place in proximity to their previous residences.” Under the Zamboanga Roadmap to Recovery and Rehabilitation Plan (Z3R), an estimated US$80 million will be needed to provide housing and infrastructure assistance. On 25 January, the government and the country’s largest Muslim group, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) announced progress toward a final peace deal to end decades of insurgency in the south. It is expected that this agreement, which will create an autonomous Muslim region with local powers, will be signed in the coming months. Quake in Bohol Shelter and relocation are also the biggest challenge on the central Philippine island of Bohol, where the October earthquake killed more than 200 people, displaced 300,000 others and destroyed more than 76,000 homes. A  report on 10 January 2014 showed that almost 600 families were still housed in evacuation centres, and many more were living in tents near their destroyed homes, or with extended family members. The national government’s Bohol Earthquake Action Plan says $46.8 million will be needed to address the needs of the more than 300,000 people affected by the calamity until April 2014. To qualify for assistance, families must have a total monthly income of less than $227. The national government has allocated $20.7 million for earthquake survivor housing assistance. So far, the national Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) has allocated emergency housing assistance of $227 to families with partially damaged homes, and “core” shelter assistance of $1,590 to those with totally damaged homes so they can start rebuilding more durable housing. Families must earn less than $227 monthly to qualify. But just as officials started identifying families most in need, a new catastrophe interrupted relief efforts. “Initial assessments of partially and totally damaged homes were started by the DSWD immediately after the earthquake. However, when [Typhoon Haiyan, locally called] Yolanda struck [elsewhere in the Central Philippines], DSWD personnel had to be reassigned to Yolanda areas,” said Liza Quirog, head of the government’s inter-agency coordinator for Bohol relief efforts. “We are finalizing the list of qualified beneficiaries today [27 January] so we can meet the target for the release of DSWD funds scheduled for this week,” Quirog said. Landslides and sinkholes Loisella Lucino, Bohol’s provincial director, noted that “There is also a problem of finding suitable settlement sites because areas have been declared as landslide-prone… [on] geo-hazard maps.” The  maps were prepared by the Mines and Geosciences Bureau of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (MGB-DENR), and classify defined areas as having low, moderate or high susceptibility to floods, flash floods and landslides. Quirog said six areas have been declared uninhabitable because they are prone to landslides or have sinkholes. Despite these challenges, the spokesman for the government’s Office of Civil Defence, Major Reynaldo Balido, assured IRIN that survivors’ needs will be met. “We will not forget the crises in Zamboanga and Bohol,” he said. “Budgets have been earmarked for the recovery of these two areas, and personnel from national government agencies have been assigned to oversee efforts.” as/pt/he Theme (s): Natural Disasters, [This report does not necessarily reflect the views of the United Nations] SHARE THIS STORY Discussion Guidelines Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. comments powered by Disqus LATEST REPORTS Scaling up accountability to communities Iraq fights back against polio Priced out of food in the CAR Hunger in Myanmar’s “dry zone” Lack of funds could freeze aid to Anbar Getting CAR back to school Filling Myanmar&apos;s Rakhine aid gap SHARE THIS STORY MORE REPORTS Prospects for peace in Mindanao Connectivity and emerging infectious diseases in Southeast Asia New displacements as Philippines nears final peace deal Philippines on watch for infectious disease outbreaks More aid for southern Philippine conflict zone MORE ON NATURAL DISASTERS Analysis: How effective is Pakistan’s disaster authority? Indonesia’s lagging volcano preparedness Jumble of needs complicate aid to Afghanistan’s displaced Indonesian eruption displaces people, buries crops Water brings change flowing in Pakistan’s Tharparkar Tweets about &quot;irinnews&quot; SLIDESHOW Philippines typhoon relief intensifies FILM Haiti’s Homeless Hotel IN-DEPTH Youth in crisis: Coming of age in the 21st century When disaster strikes: the response to the South Asian earthquake Between Two Stones - Nepal’s decade of conflict Our Bodies - Their Battle Ground: Gender-based Violence in Conflict Zones Bitter-Sweet Harvest: Afghanistan&apos;s New War World AIDS Day 2002 LATEST ANALYSIS Scaling up accountability to communities Iraq fights back against polio Myanmar peace and development scorecard NGO-NGO learning: what works? Managing Pakistan’s disasters MOST READ Kariba Dam collapse fears and disaster preparedness in Zimbabwe Asylum seekers left high and dry in Indonesia Fighting an invisible enemy in DRC Lack of funding threatens aid response in Iraq&apos;s Anbar Province Getting CAR back to school Read this article in: Français - عربي Philippine calamities in the shadow of Typhoon Haiyan Follow @{0} COMMENT EMAIL PRINT EASY READ SHARE Photo: Jason Gutierrez/IRIN It was only weeks after conflict erupted in Mindanao that an earthquake hit Bohol (file photo) MANILA, 28 January 2014 (IRIN) - In the wake of Typhoon Haiyan, the Philippine government is struggling to meet the needs of survivors in other areas of the archipelago that have experienced calamity as well as conflict. The Philippines went through back-to-back emergencies, starting with the  siege of Zamboanga City on the southern island of Mindanao by Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) rebels in September 2013. After barely recovering from a three-week standoff, a  7.2-magnitude earthquake hit the island of Bohol, some 360km to the north, in central Philippines on 15 October.  Finding home in Zamboanga “Shelter remains to be our biggest challenge,” said Wouter De Cuyper, a field officer for the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Zamboanga City, where more than 63,000 people were still displaced on 14 January. “Those who used to live in the areas most affected by the fighting, or whose houses were burned during the fighting, cannot go back to their homes yet,” said De Cuyper. An estimated 10,000  homes were destroyed by fire during the conflict. According to the Zamboanga City  Public Information Office (PIO), 834 families have been transferred to bunkhouses constructed by the local government and the International Organization for Migration (IOM), and there are plans to relocate more people so as to decongest the evacuation centres. “Temporary shelters have been constructed to accommodate 1,000 families. It is expected that by [the] first quarter of this year [2014], we will commence with the construction of on-site permanent shelter,” Maria Isabelle Climaco-Salazar, the mayor of Zamboanga, wrote to IRIN in a text message. But even identifying suitable sites - either transitional or permanent - to which displaced people could be transferred is problematic because of national policy on the non-establishment of coastal communities according to the Philippine Water Code’s article 51, which prohibits construction three metres from a coastline or riverbank in urban areas. The no-build zone is 20 metres in agricultural areas and 40 metres in forested ones. “We need to take into consideration that many of the IDPs [internally displaced persons] previously resided in houses on stilts in the coastal communities,” wrote Climaco-Salazar. “We estimate a 12-month timeframe wherein IDPs shall have returned to their places of origin, or [been] relocated to a place in proximity to their previous residences.” Under the Zamboanga Roadmap to Recovery and Rehabilitation Plan (Z3R), an estimated US$80 million will be needed to provide housing and infrastructure assistance. On 25 January, the government and the country’s largest Muslim group, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) announced progress toward a final peace deal to end decades of insurgency in the south. It is expected that this agreement, which will create an autonomous Muslim region with local powers, will be signed in the coming months. Quake in Bohol Shelter and relocation are also the biggest challenge on the central Philippine island of Bohol, where the October earthquake killed more than 200 people, displaced 300,000 others and destroyed more than 76,000 homes. A  report on 10 January 2014 showed that almost 600 families were still housed in evacuation centres, and many more were living in tents near their destroyed homes, or with extended family members. The national government’s Bohol Earthquake Action Plan says $46.8 million will be needed to address the needs of the more than 300,000 people affected by the calamity until April 2014. To qualify for assistance, families must have a total monthly income of less than $227. The national government has allocated $20.7 million for earthquake survivor housing assistance. So far, the national Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) has allocated emergency housing assistance of $227 to families with partially damaged homes, and “core” shelter assistance of $1,590 to those with totally damaged homes so they can start rebuilding more durable housing. Families must earn less than $227 monthly to qualify. But just as officials started identifying families most in need, a new catastrophe interrupted relief efforts. “Initial assessments of partially and totally damaged homes were started by the DSWD immediately after the earthquake. However, when [Typhoon Haiyan, locally called] Yolanda struck [elsewhere in the Central Philippines], DSWD personnel had to be reassigned to Yolanda areas,” said Liza Quirog, head of the government’s inter-agency coordinator for Bohol relief efforts. “We are finalizing the list of qualified beneficiaries today [27 January] so we can meet the target for the release of DSWD funds scheduled for this week,” Quirog said. Landslides and sinkholes Loisella Lucino, Bohol’s provincial director, noted that “There is also a problem of finding suitable settlement sites because areas have been declared as landslide-prone… [on] geo-hazard maps.” The  maps were prepared by the Mines and Geosciences Bureau of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (MGB-DENR), and classify defined areas as having low, moderate or high susceptibility to floods, flash floods and landslides. Quirog said six areas have been declared uninhabitable because they are prone to landslides or have sinkholes. Despite these challenges, the spokesman for the government’s Office of Civil Defence, Major Reynaldo Balido, assured IRIN that survivors’ needs will be met. “We will not forget the crises in Zamboanga and Bohol,” he said. “Budgets have been earmarked for the recovery of these two areas, and personnel from national government agencies have been assigned to oversee efforts.” as/pt/he {1} ##LOC[OK]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## Copyright Notice About IRIN Jobs Mobile Feedback Other OCHA Sites Donors     Social Copyright © IRIN 2014. All rights reserved. This material comes to you via IRIN, the humanitarian news and analysis service of the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. The opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect those of the United Nations or its Member States. The boundaries, names and designations used on maps on this site and links to external sites do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the UN. Republication is subject to terms and conditions as set out in the IRIN copyright page.
Turn autoplay off Turn autoplay on Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off Jump to content [s] Jump to comments [c] Jump to site navigation [0] Jump to search [4] Terms and conditions [8] Edition: UK US AU Your activity Email subscriptions Account details Linked services Sign out Profile Beta About us About us Contact us Press office Terms of service Privacy policy Subscribe Guardian iPhone iPad edition Kindle Guardian Weekly Digital edition News US World Sports Comment Culture Business Money Environment Science Travel Tech Media Life &amp; style Data News Global development Life after typhoon Haiyan: Cebu&apos;s struggle to rebuild lives and homes Across the Philippines&apos; second-largest city and the province&apos;s islands, inhabitants try to buy materials for basic housing Share Tweet this Email Mark Tran in Cebu theguardian.com, Tuesday 4 February 2014 20.00 EST Jump to comments (…) Ginevey Caso in Cebu, Philippines. Photograph: Mark Tran for the Guardian Ginevey Caso recounts her memories of typhoon Haiyan, which destroyed her simple wooden home three months ago, with almost casual cheerfulness. &quot;My house fell down and there is no more house. Now I am staying in the lower part of the village under a tarpaulin,&quot; she says as two of her children play nearby. Caso is separated from her husband and has to support her children, three boys and a girl. Her youngest is seven months and her eldest is 10; both are boys. She lives in Magnlotang barangay, or village, which is a two-hour drive from Cebu, the Philippines&apos; second-largest city, along a scenic coastal road that hugs the shore before climbing into green-clad hills lined with coconut trees and sugar cane. The sea is flat as a mirror, and it is hard to imagine the brute force of a superstorm on a sunny day like this. Although the island of Cebu was not as badly hit as Leyte and its capital, Tacloban, to the east, it still took a battering, especially in the north. Villagers describe hearing winds resembling a ship&apos;s engine or a helicopter for about two and a half hours. Northern Cebu is littered with damaged buildings, with roofs bent out of shape or missing altogether. Many coconut trees have fallen and the few that remain have fronds twisted into a giant knot at the top of the trunk. People in Cebu are still picking up the pieces from typhoon Haiyan, literally in many cases. Caso, along with about 50 others, is taking two-hour classes on child nutrition and disaster-risk reduction, held in the village school in the morning. The women sit with their infants inside a white Unicef tent, their colourful flip-flops piled high outside. They are encouraged to breastfeed for the first year, then gradually add nutritious vegetables such as squash or moringa leaves to congee, a ubiquitous soupy rice. The classes, organised by the charity World Vision, were designed to stave off malnutrition after the devastation caused by Haiyan, or Yolanda, as the typhoon is known in the Philippines. As Caso talks about how she is trying to save money, her smile suddenly gives way to a trickle of tears. &quot;I am working, giving pedicures and manicures and [as] I save, I buy a little more,&quot; she says. &quot;I need to buy GI sheets [corrugated iron sheets], wood for walls and cement for flooring. But there are not too many customers [for her manicures and pedicures].&quot; She is looking to build a 10-12 sq metre house, which is considerably smaller than the standard 19 sq metre, she adds, as her daughter, Samantha Pearl, plays with a Barbie doll, and James Andrew, one of her boys, with a teddy bear. Residents rush to safety past a fallen tree during strong winds brought by typhoon Haiyan, in Cebu, Philippines. Photograph: Reuters Not far from where Caso lives is another school that was badly damaged. A building at the entrance had to be demolished because it was unsafe. White smoke drifts from waste being burned on the cement floor, which is all that is left of the building. At the back, a green corrugated iron roof is buckled and plaster sticks out from underneath, but classes continue. Romano Sarsalejo is the diminutive but indomitable headteacher, resplendent in a pink jacket. &quot;I climbed to the top of the hill – it was very difficult because of the fallen trees – and waited two and a half hours to get a one-bar signal on my mobile phone to call the Cebu city education department,&quot; she explains. &quot;I told them: &apos;How I can hold classes&apos; in this situation. It was 14 November. They came the following day.&quot; In one particularly badly hit barangay, Mahawak, 653 of 732 homes were destroyed by the typhoon. Virginia Samsung, who has found shelter in a makeshift wooden shack near a fallen tree, says: &quot;I was warned of the storm by my daughter and we evacuated temporarily to the city on the Thursday. We came back on Sunday to find almost all the homes destroyed.&quot; Samsung, along with others whose homes were demolished, has been receiving unconditional cash transfers – money with no strings attached. For December and January, about 10,000 families – approximately 50,000 people – received $60 (£40) each month. The scheme in north Cebu was funded by the UN&apos;s World Food Programme and implemented by World Vision using smartphone-like devices to read bar codes on bank cards given to beneficiaries. &quot;Two weeks after the typhoon, the markets were working again, supplies were available, so we decided to use cash transfers. If the markets were not working, then maybe we would have distributed food,&quot; says Filomena Portales, a director at World Vision Philippines. The cash is supposed to be mainly for food, but Samsung says she has spent most of the money on building materials, which does not seem to overly concern World Vision. This approach is typical of the flexibility of unconditional cash transfers, which are being used increasingly in emergencies. Samsung is stoical about the money drying up. &quot;Well, that&apos;s the end of it. We&apos;re very thankful but now we&apos;ll have to look for other options,&quot; she says. Helen Compoesto, the Mahawak village secretary, is worried about the state of the land and its crops. &quot;There is nothing to harvest; all our banana plants have been destroyed. What will we do?&quot; she says. As for Caso, even though times are tough, with fewer customers booking beauty treatments, for the time being she is resisting asking others, including her mother, for help. &quot;I want to stand on my own two feet,&quot; she says. Sign up for the Guardian Today Our editors&apos; picks for the day&apos;s top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning. Sign up for the daily email Print this Share Contact us Send to a friend Sender&apos;s name Recipient&apos;s email address Your IP address will be logged Share Short link for this page: http://gu.com/p/3met8 StumbleUpon reddit Tumblr Digg LinkedIn del.icio.us Facebook Twitter Contact us Report errors or inaccuracies: userhelp@theguardian.com Letters for publication should be sent to: letters@theguardian.com If you need help using the site: userhelp@theguardian.com Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000 Advertising guide License/buy our content Article history About this article Life after typhoon Haiyan: Cebu&apos;s struggle to rebuild lives and homes This article was published on the Guardian website at 20.00 EST on Tuesday 4 February 2014. It was last modified at 08.24 EDT on Monday 24 March 2014. Global development Cities and development World news Typhoon Haiyan · Philippines · Asia Pacific · Natural disasters and extreme weather Cities More news More features More on this story Typhoon Haiyan: UK response praised by aid watchdog Swift reaction by Department for International Development mobilised wider donor support for Philippines, says Icai Typhoon Haiyan disaster response: how the relief effort worked Typhoon Haiyan sends coconut farming &apos;back to year zero&apos; Share Tweet this Email Don&apos;t show again Hide Comments Click here to join the discussion. We can&apos;t load the discussion on theguardian.com because you don&apos;t have JavaScript enabled. Today&apos;s best video We&apos;re Going on a Bear Hunt: &apos;The editors were so excited they were nearly weeping&apos; 25 years after its publication, author Michael Rosen and illustrator Helen Oxenbury discuss their children&apos;s classic James Lovelock: give up on saving the planet Gaia theorist previews exhibition at London&apos;s Science Museum The film to watch this week Peter Bradshaw recommends the Iranian film Willow and Wind Call of Duty and the explosive rise of pro gaming Meet the players, sponsors, coaches, parents and pundits GuardianWitness India elections What do you want from a new Indian government? Share your images, videos and experiences Marathons We&apos;d love to see your photos of your London marathon experience, from now to the finish line Vintage Africa: show us your style Vintage dress is having a renaissance across Africa. Share your photos Send us your assignment ideas Do you have an idea for an assignment you think should run on GuardianWitness? Let us know The Guardian&apos;s online dating site Bella2122, 29 icarus123, 31 I am a Woman Man Seeking Women Men Men &amp; Women Aged 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 to 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 In Rather not say Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Occupied Territories Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Saint-Barthelemy Saint-Martin Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea Spain Spratly Islands Sri Lanka St Helena Ascension and Tristan da Cunha St. Lucia Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Bahamas The Gambia Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu US Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Within 5 miles 10 miles 20 miles 40 miles 60 miles 100 miles 200 miles 300 miles Of Search On Global development Most viewed Latest Last 24 hours 1.  Colombian democracy took a backward leap with ousting of Bogotá mayor 2. Why does Lebanese bill on domestic violence fail to tackle marital rape? 3. El Salvador groups accuse Pacific Rim of &apos;assault on democratic governance&apos; 4. Disability must be a priority within development programmes, say MPs 5. Slavery experts meet big business to tackle exploitation More most viewed Last 24 hours 1.  El Salvador groups accuse Pacific Rim of &apos;assault on democratic governance&apos; 2. Disability must be a priority within development programmes, say MPs 3. Humanitarian news agency faces closure as UN funding comes to an end 4. Colombian democracy took a backward leap with ousting of Bogotá mayor 5. Why does Lebanese bill on domestic violence fail to tackle marital rape? All today&apos;s stories Follow NSA-related developments as controversy over leaks continues to make headlines Sponsored feature Today in pictures BBC Sports Personality of the Year – in pictures Bradley Wiggins capped his remarkable sporting year by taking home the big prize at the ceremony in London Dinner, dusk and dancing Russians: my best winter shot A glass of wine with a rough sleeper, Santa in trunks, a thousand partying Muscovites … in a My Best Shot special, top photographers pick the image that sums up winter for them Monkey adopts kitten – in pictures Kimon, an eight-year-old pet female long-tailed monkey, treats a kitten as her baby in Bintan Island, Indonesia Hot topics Modern-day slavery Indigenous communities Women&apos;s rights and gender equality Road safety Geography game License/buy our content | Privacy policy | Terms of service | US advertising | A - Z index | About us © 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. Share Tweet this ;
Turn autoplay off Turn autoplay on Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off Jump to content [s] Jump to site navigation [0] Jump to search [4] Terms and conditions [8] Edition: UK US AU Your activity Email subscriptions Account details Linked services Sign out Profile Beta About us About us Contact us Press office Terms of service Privacy policy Subscribe Guardian iPhone iPad edition Kindle Guardian Weekly Digital edition News US World Sports Comment Culture Business Money Environment Science Travel Tech Media Life &amp; style Data News World news Typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan: an aid worker&apos;s diary of a disaster Aid agency worker Sandra Bulling was part of a team that flew to the Philippines when it was hit by the devastating storm last month. This is what she saw Share Tweet this Email Sandra Bulling The Observer, Saturday 21 December 2013 18.06 EST Care communications officer Sandra Bulling on her satellite phone amid the devastation left by typhoon Haiyan in Ormoc. Photograph: Peter Caton/CARE &apos;My first emergency was Cyclone Sidr, which caused massive destruction in Bangladesh in 2007. I visited Kyrgyzstan during the conflict in 2010 and went to Ethiopia and Kenya during the Horn of Africa food crisis a year later,&quot; says Sandra Bulling, emergency communications officer for the aid agency Care International. On these trips, Bulling accompanies the emergency response teams, who are often the first on the scene. &quot;It&apos;s inspiring to see that what you do is helping others,&quot; she says. Apart from informing the media about what is happening on the ground, she also assesses what actions her organisation needs to take. When typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines early last month, she was among the first outsiders to witness the extreme devastation on the island of Leyte, which was directly in the path of the storm. She spent nearly two weeks reporting on the aftermath. We asked her to keep a diary of her experiences. Philippines_Tacloban_WEB Geneva, Friday 8 November I wake up early wondering how severe the typhoon has been. It was due to make landfall in the Philippines overnight, at about 9.30pm European time. We knew Haiyan was coming – experts predicted it would be the strongest storm ever recorded – and had spent yesterday making preparations, but we didn&apos;t know how much damage it would cause. On the way to the Geneva office, I check the news, but there&apos;s not much information on damage or casualties. At 10am, our crisis co-ordination team calls Celso Dulce, the Care representative in Manila. He doesn&apos;t have a full picture yet – our team on the island of Leyte can&apos;t be reached by phone or email – but it seems the destruction is massive. Our humanitarian director, Barbara Jackson, decides I should go to the Philippines and help with media and communications. I drive home quickly to collect my passport. Actually, I came to the office this morning with a suitcase packed for a weekend in Paris with my friends, so now I throw everything out and repack – I don&apos;t need my fancy clubbing dresses anymore. I call my friends and apologise. They are disappointed but they understand: it&apos;s not the first time this has happened. A quick call to my parents and then off to the airport. Manila, Saturday 9 November I arrive late at night after 15 hours on a plane. Celso picks me up in his car and gives me the latest. He has not yet been able to reach organisations working in the affected areas as communications are still down. His main source of information is the local media and the UN and it all sounds terrible. In Manila, which has been unaffected by the typhoon, everything seems strangely normal. I go straight to my hotel but I&apos;m too agitated to sleep. I wonder what to expect in the days ahead. Manila to Cebu, Sunday 10 November A text message from a friend wakes me up. Marieta Lupig Alcid, executive director of Accord, our partner organisation in the Philippines, comes to pick me up. Today, we are flying to Cebu, an island next to Leyte, our ultimate destination. We cannot fly direct because the airports on Leyte have been destroyed. Marieta, or Mayet as everyone calls her, briefs me on the goals of our mission: assess the destruction on Leyte, define the needs of affected people and co-ordinate our emergency response accordingly. The flight to Cebu city takes an hour and 20 minutes. We arrive and I don&apos;t see much evidence of destruction here. Most of the night is spent giving one phone interview after the other – outside in the dark alley under a flickering street light, as there is no reception in my hotel room. The world&apos;s media are now very interested in the typhoon and I am grateful, as this usually has a big impact on donations. Stray dogs surround me, sniffing at my feet. A lot of the questions circle around the death toll. I want to scream: &quot;But we can&apos;t measure the disaster simply by the number of dead people!&quot; Entire communities have been wiped out. As many as 14 million people could be affected. The casualties are a tragedy but those who survived have found their lives in tatters. A child waits patiently in a queue for aid after Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines. Photograph: Peter Caton/Care Cebu to Leyte, Monday 11 November 4am. A quick shower, probably the last for several days. In the dark, we head to the port to take a ferry to Ormoc, a city on the west coast of Leyte. It&apos;s a two-hour boat ride . When we arrive we don&apos;t know what state the roads will be in. We don&apos;t even know if there will be a car to pick us up. Nothing is clear. Stepping out on to the port in Ormoc, we find ourselves in the middle of a disaster zone. The harbour building and the bus station opposite are destroyed. We drive around and I see tin roofing sheets hanging off trees like wet blankets. All the houses along the coast are completely flattened. Everything is destroyed. What&apos;s amazing to me is how people are reacting. Everyone, it seems, is out with hammers and tools trying to repair houses and roofs. People are picking up poles and pieces of wood from the street. I talk to a girl who is drying her school books in the sun. Her house was totally destroyed, but she&apos;s worried about her books because she wants to go back to school. We meet a shop owner whose shop was destroyed. She has lost her source of income and she doesn&apos;t know how she&apos;s going to feed her five children. I have to sit down for a moment: this is a lot to take in. There are long queues at hardware stores and pharmacies. The vice-mayor of Ormoc tells us that many of the surrounding communities are still completely cut off. People have no food, no water. Just hours ago, a woman gave birth at the entrance of the town hall. Doctors are operating with headlamps as there is no fuel for generators. The town hall itself is a mess: the floor is covered in water and debris; the roof has been blown away; all windows are broken. There are at least 60 people outside, waiting to charge their phones at the one generator that&apos;s working. After a quick discussion, we decide to drive the 66 miles to Tacloban, the island&apos;s main city, where, we hear, the destruction is even worse. We stock up on food, water and fuel. There is a massive queue at the petrol station, so we break into groups. The driver waits for the fuel while we get water, some canned food and a roast chicken. Once in a while, my satellite phone connects to the network and I give a few interviews. It&apos;s quiet in the car: we are all exhausted by what we&apos;ve seen and heard. The roads are clear but there is a lot of debris on the ground. We decide to stop for the night in a small town called Jaro. The head of the local disaster committee invites us to stay in a damaged evacuation shelter in a little room upstairs and arranges a pair of hammocks. Others bed down in the car. I get up at 2.45am to give another TV interview. The sun rises over a scene of utter devastation. It starts to rain heavily. Tacloban, Tuesday 12 November If there is a definition of &quot;worse&quot;, it&apos;s Tacloban. The destruction from the storm surge that came with the typhoon is apocalyptic. Driving along the coast, we smell decayed bodies. There are corpses under the rubble. We start to cry in the car and for a while I can only look straight ahead, not daring to glimpse through the side windows. No matter how experienced you are, seeing dead bodies still shocks you to the core. Looking into the eyes of survivors is not easy either. People are traumatised – almost everyone here has lost family members, friends, loved ones. We drive towards the airport, where the first aircraft are bringing in relief goods. The lines of people waiting for a flight to leave the island seem endless. A few women tell us they&apos;ve been queuing here for two days: they want to go to Manila and live with family members because they have no homes any more. They haven&apos;t had anything to eat since the weekend and all their remaining belongings fit into two plastic bags. We drive by a hospital with a handwritten cardboard sign on the door that says &quot;Closed&quot;. Some people have written &quot;We need help&quot; on the street, a desperate plea to us aid workers. The satellite phone is our only contact to the outside world. As I have no reception in the car, we often stop so I can give interviews outside. I stand in the rubble of destroyed houses, on the terraces of crumbling churches, in devastated classrooms, and tell the world what has happened in Tacloban. People who see me talking on the sat phone ask if they can call their families. Even though the battery is running low, I let some of them use it. For others, we note down numbers and names and promise to call as soon as we reach somewhere with network coverage. Every journalist asks me about the lootings. I haven&apos;t seen any looting but I can understand why it might happen: people are becoming desperate. They haven&apos;t had food for days and they&apos;re trying to feed their families. I can only admire the many Filipinos I&apos;ve seen helping each other. The UN has set up its operational base in Tacloban&apos;s town hall. The head of the UN operations invites us to stay for the night and I discover a worn-out sofa in one of the offices. In candlelight, we have a silent dinner of canned tuna and salted biscuits. The windows in our room are destroyed and I can smell decayed bodies. After two short hours of sleep, I am woken by the wind. Is this a second storm coming our way? In the early morning, the wind calms down. Tacloban to Ormoc, Wednesday 13 November When I get up, there is more bad news: 150 dead bodies have just been found behind the town hall. Getting ready to leave Tacloban, we stop at a church where Mayet knows the local pastor. Pastor Edwin introduces me to Lourdes, a young woman who gave birth to a baby girl the day the typhoon hit. Amid the chaos she got separated from her husband and two other children. She made it to the hospital only to find out that it had been destroyed. So she came across the road to this church and gave birth here. She named the girl Yolanda, the local name for typhoon Haiyan. The good news: her husband and other children survived and they were reunited here at the church. It is a relief to hear some good news. We stay at the town hall for the night and sleep on mattresses that tomorrow will be delivered to a local hospital. Ormoc, Thursday, 14 November This is a good morning. I have slept for six hours. I wash my hair in the sink in the town hall and have a sweet coffee and some hot soup at a makeshift restaurant that has just opened down the street. It rains again and water pours through the roof of the town hall into our office and sleeping area. My colleague Erica heads out in search of a hotel. She finds one that offers us a few rooms. They have no electricity, no running water and everything is damp, but there is at least a proper bed. Ormoc, Friday 15 November On the streets this morning there is a lot of activity – people are searching the rubble for buried possessions and the town is filled with the sound of hammering. My dad just got through on the satellite phone. He is a doctor and tells me that all the hospital staff have seen me on TV. He is scared because he has seen reports of looting on the news. I start to get annoyed. Why do the media always just show one drastic side of the story? Filipinos encounter disasters every year: typhoons, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes. The people here deserve better – they are strong and they are doing their best to get back on their feet. For dinner, my colleague Erica has arranged fried chicken and hot soup. She is the best logistician ever. We devour our first hot meal in days. Ormoc to Manila, Saturday 16 November I manage to get a ticket for the afternoon ferry back to Cebu. Not easy, as so many people are trying to leave. I am exhausted, but part of me doesn&apos;t want to leave the team I&apos;ve grown so close to over the past few days. From Cebu we take a flight to Manila. Mayet starts calling the numbers she was given in Tacloban by people desperate to use our satellite phone. For all but one of the people she talks to, she is the first to communicate the good news that their loved ones have survived. Manila to Geneva, 20 November After several days of co-ordinating media work from Manila, I hand over to a newly arrived colleague from Canada. The team here has grown: experts from around the world have arrived to scale up our emergency response and ensure that affected families receive food and shelter supplies. There are also plans to offer long-term support; it will take years for people to rebuild their lives. This has been the most challenging trip I&apos;ve made since starting this job, but I&apos;ve already decided I want to go back next May. It would be nice to visit the island in different circumstances and see how people are rebuilding their lives. Before I left Manila, the city was getting ready for Christmas and all the shops were full of decorations. Geneva will be the same when I return. The best I can hope for the families on Leyte, over this festive season, is that they can be with their loved ones. Sign up for the Guardian Today Our editors&apos; picks for the day&apos;s top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning. Sign up for the daily email Print this Share Contact us Send to a friend Sender&apos;s name Recipient&apos;s email address Your IP address will be logged Share Short link for this page: http://gu.com/p/3yagq StumbleUpon reddit Tumblr Digg LinkedIn del.icio.us Facebook Twitter Contact us Report errors or inaccuracies: reader@observer.co.uk Letters for publication should be sent to: letters@observer.co.uk If you need help using the site: userhelp@theguardian.com Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000 Advertising guide License/buy our content Article history About this article Typhoon Haiyan: an aid worker&apos;s diary of a disaster This article was published on the Guardian website at 18.06 EST on Saturday 21 December 2013. A version appeared on p18 of the The New Review section of the Observer on Saturday 21 December 2013. It was last modified at 16.01 EST on Thursday 9 January 2014. World news Typhoon Haiyan · Natural disasters and extreme weather · Asia Pacific · Philippines Global development More on this story Philippines: survivors of typhoon Haiyan salvage the spirit of Christmas Most survivors are still dependent on aid and will be celebrating in the halls and classrooms operating as evacuation centres The Philippines is devastated as much by unfair debt as typhoon Haiyan Typhoon Haiyan: the aftermath – in pictures Share Tweet this Email Don&apos;t show again Hide On the Guardian today Money When the French clock off at 6pm, they really mean it Technology Heartbleed: don&apos;t rush to update passwords, security experts warn World news Sriracha hot sauce production declared public nuisance by California city Life and style Flirtation or sexual harassment? Here&apos;s how to tell the difference World news Man suspected of 40 murders in US Science States look to naloxone to cure America’s overdose epidemic Today&apos;s best video We&apos;re Going on a Bear Hunt: &apos;The editors were so excited they were nearly weeping&apos; 25 years after its publication, author Michael Rosen and illustrator Helen Oxenbury discuss their children&apos;s classic James Lovelock: give up on saving the planet Gaia theorist previews exhibition at London&apos;s Science Museum The film to watch this week Peter Bradshaw recommends the Iranian film Willow and Wind Call of Duty and the explosive rise of pro gaming Meet the players, sponsors, coaches, parents and pundits On World news Most viewed Latest Last 24 hours 1.  Oscar Pistorius accused of egotistical behaviour with Reeva Steenkamp 2. Oscar Pistorius trial live - 10 April 3. Silvio Berlusconi&apos;s judgment day – you choose the sentence 4. Sriracha hot sauce production declared public nuisance by California city 5. Christine Lagarde: huge government and bank debts risk new financial crash More most viewed Last 24 hours 1.  Record turnout across India largely peaceful in first big election day 2. MoD fails in attempt to stifle criticism of Afghan conflict 3. Oscar Pistorius admits he had no reason to fire shots that killed girlfriend 4. Oscar Pistorius: &apos;I didn&apos;t have time to think&apos; - video 5. Russian MPs say Mikhail Gorbachev should be prosecuted for treason All today&apos;s stories Sponsored feature Today in pictures BBC Sports Personality of the Year – in pictures Bradley Wiggins capped his remarkable sporting year by taking home the big prize at the ceremony in London Dinner, dusk and dancing Russians: my best winter shot A glass of wine with a rough sleeper, Santa in trunks, a thousand partying Muscovites … in a My Best Shot special, top photographers pick the image that sums up winter for them Monkey adopts kitten – in pictures Kimon, an eight-year-old pet female long-tailed monkey, treats a kitten as her baby in Bintan Island, Indonesia License/buy our content | Privacy policy | Terms of service | US advertising | A - Z index | About us © 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. Share Tweet this ;
Competitions Horoscopes Cartoons Bingo Poker Fantasy Football Crosswords Shop Cookie Policy Facebook Twitter GooglePlus Search: Transfer Gossip Who&apos;s your club&apos;s most wanted? Mirror Mirror View our FREE mobile and tablet apps Most read Live feeds Recommended for you News Sections Latest News UK News World News Weird News Technology Crime Real Life Stories Health Sex &amp; Relationships Top News Six things we learned from Oscar Pistorius&apos; second day of cross examination as his version slammed as &quot;improbable&quot; Most Read in News Kate Middleton wows in New Zealand-inspired gown at glittering state reception Oscar Pistorius trial recap: Prosecutor says Blade Runner is an egotist who blames &apos;everybody but himself&apos; Reeva Steenkamp&apos;s mother reveals her personal hell every time she watches Oscar Pistorius in the dock - VIDEO Missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370: Live updates as search resumes following detection of two MORE underwater &apos;pings&apos; Malaysia Airlines jumbo jet had to return to Heathrow - and all black box cockpit voice recorder data was lost Trending Today Oscar Pistorius Reeva Steenkamp Kate Middleton, Duchess of Cambridge Prince George Prince William Popular this week Maria Miller resigns William and Kate tour 2014 Oscar Pistorius murder trial Missing Malaysian Airlines flight Hillsborough inquests Football Celebs Sections Latest Celebs Celebrity News US Gossip Style Weird Celeb News Top News Live updates: Peaches Geldof death remains a mystery as it emerges doctor warned her over health issues Most Read in Celebs Live updates: Peaches Geldof death remains a mystery as it emerges doctor warned her over health issues &quot;I had the heart of a 90-year-old gangster&quot;: Peaches Geldof warned by doctors after health scare 32 ridiculously hot pictures of Rihanna after she posed naked and flashed her bare bum Tiger Lily suffers third tragic loss after sister Peaches Geldof&apos;s death Trending Today Oscar Pistorius Reeva Steenkamp Kate Middleton, Duchess of Cambridge Prince George Prince William Popular this week The Only Way Is Essex The Voice One Direction TV &amp; Film Weird News Trending Maria Miller resigns Royal tour Pistorius trial Flight MH370 Hillsborough inquests Michael Schumacher Sport Sections Latest Sport Football Formula 1 Boxing Tennis Rugby Union Rugby League Cricket Golf Horse Racing Other Sports Top News See Gareth Bale chat with fans LIVE on a Google Hangout Most Read in Sport Manchester United&apos;s Toni Kroos transfer chase means a Munich sleepover for Woodward Everton&apos;s Roberto Martinez slams Arsene Wenger&apos;s &apos;&apos;ridiculous&apos;&apos; criticism of the loan system Arsenal news and transfer rumours: Arsene Wenger eyes injured Saints striker Jay Rodriguez Liverpool news and transfer rumours: Pepe Reina likely to leave Anfield for good this summer Manchester United news and transfer rumours: Anders Lindegaard considers leaving but Alex Buttner wants to stay &apos;Schoolboy defending&apos; cost Manchester United against Bayern Munich, David Moyes admits Trending Today Oscar Pistorius Reeva Steenkamp Kate Middleton, Duchess of Cambridge Prince George Prince William Popular this week Transfer gossip round-up The Masters Liverpool FC Michael Schumacher Technology Money Travel Motoring Home News Your Account Edit Profile Logout Typhoon Haiyan Tweet Typhoon Haiyan left thousands dead in The Philippines after it struck on 7 November 2013. The category five super storm - believed to the biggest storm ever to make landfall - brought severe flooding, huge landslides and 195mph winds and left a trail of devastation.   updated David Beckham makes surprise visit to Philippines where typhoon killed 6,000 people David Beckham 13-02-2014 The soccer legend spent today meeting child survivors of Typhoon Haiyan which devastated the region last November Smiles you helped to pay for: How Mirror typhoon appeal cash reached needy such as these schoolchildren Typhoon Haiyan 10-02-2014 Thanks to big-hearted Mirror readers, the youngsters can continue to have lessons despite their school being smashed to pieces when Haiyan hit the Philippines Typhoon Haiyan survivor gives birth in tricycle taxi after failing to reach inflatable hospital in time Typhoon Haiyan 29-12-2013 Ernalyn Malquesto, 33, gave birth to baby boy Jose Carlos on Christmas Day Paul Walker founded charity to cope with effects of Typhoon Haiyan and Indonesia tsunami before tragic death Video Paul Walker 19-12-2013 The beloved actor, who died on November 30, helped people around the world with his Reach Out Worldwide organisation exclusive Justin Bieber gives closest family a sneak peek of his new movie Believe Video Justin Bieber twitter 12-12-2013 The film, being released for fans on December 26, will show life on the road for the singing superstar. exclusive Justin Bieber tells the Mirror he will &apos;&apos;never forget&apos;&apos; his visit to the Philippines after devastating Typhoon Haiyan Video Justin Bieber 10-12-2013 The singer has helped to raise funds for those whose lives were destroyed by the typhoon Justin Bieber visits Philippines after raising $3 MILLION for victims of Typhoon Haiyan Justin Bieber 10-12-2013 The megastar met school children and performed an impromptu gig during the emotional trip which he describes as the &quot;most touching trip of my life&quot; Fans can meet Justin Bieber as he launches Typhoon Haiyan charity appeal Video Justin Bieber 05-12-2013 The popstar has launched a global fundraiser to raise money for UNICEF, Action Against Hunger and Philam Foundation Rihanna donates $100k to Philippines typhoon aid Video Rihanna 27-11-2013 The star - a longtime supporter of UNICEF - has pledged money to a good cause and wants her followers to do the same Win Victoria Beckham&apos;s cocktail dress AND help the people of the Philippines Gallery Victoria Beckham dress 25-11-2013 We&apos;ve got one of Posh&apos;s red frocks to give away to one lucky winner, with all profits going to the victims of Typhoon Haiyan exclusive Angel of Typhoon Haiyan: British doctor saving lives in Philippine hell Typhoon Haiyan 25-11-2013 Mirror reporter Steve Myall meets Natalie Roberts, who rushed to Tacloban after spending nine months in war-torn Syria Philippines joy as Manny Pacquiao breaks losing streak with win over Brandon Rios Manny Pacquiao 24-11-2013 Filipinos at temporary shelters in the typhoon-hit country jumped from their seats as their hero &apos;Pacman&apos; won in China exclusive Philippines devastation: Roofs ripped off, trees flattened, people desperate for help - but they haven&apos;t given up Typhoon Haiyan 24-11-2013 Sunday Mirror reporter Steve Myall was on board Royal Navy ship HMS Daring when it arrived as part of the Typhoon Haiyan rescue operation Filipino boxer Manny Pacquiao dedicates fight with Brandon Rios to Typhoon Haiyan victims Manny Pacquiao 22-11-2013 Tearful Pacquiao has relatives who are among those whose lives have been destroyed in the Philippines disaster Kim Kardashian auctions off clothes for victims of Typhoon Haiyan but gives only 10% of proceeds to charity Kim Kardashian 22-11-2013 The reality star is selling her belongings online in a bid to help those in trouble in the Philippines Beckham charity items sold on eBay for three times the price just hours after Red Cross sale Video Victoria Beckham 22-11-2013 Posh and Becks gave away hundreds of items of clothing to charity but shoppers put their finds on eBay for higher prices just hours later Inside Victoria and David Beckham&apos;s designer charity shop sale Video Typhoon Haiyan 22-11-2013 Christian Louboutin, Jimmy Choo, Roberto Cavalli, D&amp;G - these are just some of the swanky labels bargain-hunters took home from the Beckham&apos;s charity shop drop David Beckham and Victoria donate designer gear to charity shop to raise cash for typhoon victims - queues expected Typhoon Haiyan 22-11-2013 The celebrity couple handed over a small mountain of old clothes and shoes to their local British Red Cross shop in Chelsea Typhoon Haiyan shows Britain cares - but we must choose deserving cases Politics 21-11-2013 The Mirror Online politics panel&apos;s Conservative MP Alec Shelbrooke reflects on why we should still give to others, but be more selective David and Victoria Beckham &apos;give thousands of pounds worth of clothes and shoes to charity shop&apos; Typhoon Haiyan 21-11-2013 The couple, who are famous for their expensive taste in designer outfits, have parted with the items to raise money for victims of Typhoon Haiyan Spencer Matthews backtracks on £500k bar bill... and donates £48 to help Philippines Spencer Matthews 19-11-2013 Spencer now claims the £488,706.48 receipt he tweeted was due to a till error and pledges to give the real amount to charity Rihanna and Spencer Matthews shouldn’t be flashing the cash after the Philippines typhoon Spencer Matthews 19-11-2013 Celebs with more money than sense need to show some respect, says Katy Brent exclusive Typhoon Haiyan: NHS doctors hit the ground running in Phillipines disaster zones Typhoon Haiyan 19-11-2013 Exclusive report by the Mirror&apos;s Steve Myall with the British aid and rescue teams on Cebu Island in the Phillipines  exclusive David Beckham in Philippines appeal: Imagine this was your terrified, hurt and confused child - please help Video Typhoon Haiyan 18-11-2013 David Beckham, UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador and dad-of-four, urges Mirror readers to help the survivors of the Philippines super-storm Typoon Haiyan aftermath: Home for some is just a pile of bamboo sticks which cannot be rebuilt Typhoon Haiyan 18-11-2013 Steve Myall, on Cebu island, The Philippines, says the scenery is a landscape of fallen trees and skeletons of houses, some with roofs half ripped off like partly opened sardine tins Typhoon Haiyan: Luxury cruise to New York on Queen Mary II to being auctioned to raise funds Typhoon Haiyan 17-11-2013 Online travel agency Iglu.com, which specialises in cruise and ski holidays, is offering the eight night trip to the highest bidder on ebay Typhoon Haiyan: Shocking new footage shows house literally washed away in storm Video Typhoon Haiyan 17-11-2013 Camera footage reveals the true devastation behind the shock typhoon as one house is violently swept into the water Payback time: Why football must dip into its deep pockets to support the victims of Typhoon Haiyan Football finance 17-11-2013 The Premier League has long exploited the Asian market to fill its coffers. Now it&apos;s time to step up Typhoon Haiyan: Britons among missing in disaster zone, says William Hague Video Typhoon Haiyan 17-11-2013 The Foreign Office refused to say how many Brits are unaccounted for but pledged continued support to the stricken country exclusive Victims of Typhoon Haiyan are laid to rest at last in mass graves Video Typhoon Haiyan 17-11-2013 Black body bags - many of them tiny and holding the remains of children - are being piled into the burial pits 1 2 Next Most Read in News Oscar Pistorius murder trial Oscar Pistorius trial recap: Prosecutor says Blade Runner is an egotist who blames &apos;everybody but himself&apos; Oscar Pistorius murder trial Reeva Steenkamp&apos;s mother reveals her personal hell every time she watches Oscar Pistorius in the dock - VIDEO Missing Malaysian Airlines flight Missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370: Live updates as search resumes following detection of two MORE underwater &apos;pings&apos; Kate Middleton, Duchess of Cambridge Kate Middleton wows in New Zealand-inspired gown at glittering state reception Missing Malaysian Airlines flight Live: Updates in the search for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 Shop with us   Save up to 70%   Poker Bonus   Compare online poker sites and get play tips Get top poker tips and sign up online Casio Illuminator Watch   £43.90 – Save £76 Easy-to-read analogue dial with digital display and functions Most recent Missing persons Live: Massive search for missing three-year-old Chloe Campbell believed to have been snatched from home CCTV Watch woman in her dressing gown confront thieves in her own backyard after attempted break-in YouTube Watch the hilarious moment a grandmother takes a ride on a rollercoaster for the first time Missing Malaysian Airlines flight Officials face &apos;first of its kind&apos; salvage operation to retrieve Flight MH370 from depth of 15,000 feet Cancer Brave mum has 5 billion-to-one terminal illness double – but treating one means the other will kill her   View: Desktop Mobile Find a job Find a home Find a new home Find a local business About Us Contact Us Sell Your Story Cookie Policy For the record Privacy Statement Terms and Conditions Paper Subscription to the Daily Mirror Paper Subscription to the Sunday Mirror Irish Mirror News UK News Weird News Technology &amp; Science Real Life Stories World news Crime Play Crosswords Sudoku Competitions Poker Bingo Sport Football Formula 1 Boxing Tennis Rugby League Rugby Union Cricket Golf Horse racing Other Sports Fantasy Football TV TV News TV Previews TV Reviews 3am Celebrity News US gossip Style TV &amp; film news Weird celeb news Money City News Personal finance Jobs Quids In Opinion News Opinion Sport Opinion 3am Opinion Lifestyle Opinion Lifestyle Health Horoscopes Staying in Going out Reader Offers Sex &amp; Relationships Dieting Cartoons Family Gardening Travel Motoring
Turn autoplay off Turn autoplay on Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off Jump to content [s] Jump to comments [c] Jump to site navigation [0] Jump to search [4] Terms and conditions [8] Edition: UK US AU Your activity Email subscriptions Account details Linked services Sign out Profile Beta About us About us Contact us Press office Terms of service Privacy policy Subscribe Guardian iPhone iPad edition Kindle Guardian Weekly Digital edition News US World Sports Comment Culture Business Money Environment Science Travel Tech Media Life &amp; style Data News Global development Life after typhoon Haiyan: Cebu&apos;s struggle to rebuild lives and homes Across the Philippines&apos; second-largest city and the province&apos;s islands, inhabitants try to buy materials for basic housing Share Tweet this Email Mark Tran in Cebu theguardian.com, Tuesday 4 February 2014 20.00 EST Jump to comments (…) Ginevey Caso in Cebu, Philippines. Photograph: Mark Tran for the Guardian Ginevey Caso recounts her memories of typhoon Haiyan, which destroyed her simple wooden home three months ago, with almost casual cheerfulness. &quot;My house fell down and there is no more house. Now I am staying in the lower part of the village under a tarpaulin,&quot; she says as two of her children play nearby. Caso is separated from her husband and has to support her children, three boys and a girl. Her youngest is seven months and her eldest is 10; both are boys. She lives in Magnlotang barangay, or village, which is a two-hour drive from Cebu, the Philippines&apos; second-largest city, along a scenic coastal road that hugs the shore before climbing into green-clad hills lined with coconut trees and sugar cane. The sea is flat as a mirror, and it is hard to imagine the brute force of a superstorm on a sunny day like this. Although the island of Cebu was not as badly hit as Leyte and its capital, Tacloban, to the east, it still took a battering, especially in the north. Villagers describe hearing winds resembling a ship&apos;s engine or a helicopter for about two and a half hours. Northern Cebu is littered with damaged buildings, with roofs bent out of shape or missing altogether. Many coconut trees have fallen and the few that remain have fronds twisted into a giant knot at the top of the trunk. People in Cebu are still picking up the pieces from typhoon Haiyan, literally in many cases. Caso, along with about 50 others, is taking two-hour classes on child nutrition and disaster-risk reduction, held in the village school in the morning. The women sit with their infants inside a white Unicef tent, their colourful flip-flops piled high outside. They are encouraged to breastfeed for the first year, then gradually add nutritious vegetables such as squash or moringa leaves to congee, a ubiquitous soupy rice. The classes, organised by the charity World Vision, were designed to stave off malnutrition after the devastation caused by Haiyan, or Yolanda, as the typhoon is known in the Philippines. As Caso talks about how she is trying to save money, her smile suddenly gives way to a trickle of tears. &quot;I am working, giving pedicures and manicures and [as] I save, I buy a little more,&quot; she says. &quot;I need to buy GI sheets [corrugated iron sheets], wood for walls and cement for flooring. But there are not too many customers [for her manicures and pedicures].&quot; She is looking to build a 10-12 sq metre house, which is considerably smaller than the standard 19 sq metre, she adds, as her daughter, Samantha Pearl, plays with a Barbie doll, and James Andrew, one of her boys, with a teddy bear. Residents rush to safety past a fallen tree during strong winds brought by typhoon Haiyan, in Cebu, Philippines. Photograph: Reuters Not far from where Caso lives is another school that was badly damaged. A building at the entrance had to be demolished because it was unsafe. White smoke drifts from waste being burned on the cement floor, which is all that is left of the building. At the back, a green corrugated iron roof is buckled and plaster sticks out from underneath, but classes continue. Romano Sarsalejo is the diminutive but indomitable headteacher, resplendent in a pink jacket. &quot;I climbed to the top of the hill – it was very difficult because of the fallen trees – and waited two and a half hours to get a one-bar signal on my mobile phone to call the Cebu city education department,&quot; she explains. &quot;I told them: &apos;How I can hold classes&apos; in this situation. It was 14 November. They came the following day.&quot; In one particularly badly hit barangay, Mahawak, 653 of 732 homes were destroyed by the typhoon. Virginia Samsung, who has found shelter in a makeshift wooden shack near a fallen tree, says: &quot;I was warned of the storm by my daughter and we evacuated temporarily to the city on the Thursday. We came back on Sunday to find almost all the homes destroyed.&quot; Samsung, along with others whose homes were demolished, has been receiving unconditional cash transfers – money with no strings attached. For December and January, about 10,000 families – approximately 50,000 people – received $60 (£40) each month. The scheme in north Cebu was funded by the UN&apos;s World Food Programme and implemented by World Vision using smartphone-like devices to read bar codes on bank cards given to beneficiaries. &quot;Two weeks after the typhoon, the markets were working again, supplies were available, so we decided to use cash transfers. If the markets were not working, then maybe we would have distributed food,&quot; says Filomena Portales, a director at World Vision Philippines. The cash is supposed to be mainly for food, but Samsung says she has spent most of the money on building materials, which does not seem to overly concern World Vision. This approach is typical of the flexibility of unconditional cash transfers, which are being used increasingly in emergencies. Samsung is stoical about the money drying up. &quot;Well, that&apos;s the end of it. We&apos;re very thankful but now we&apos;ll have to look for other options,&quot; she says. Helen Compoesto, the Mahawak village secretary, is worried about the state of the land and its crops. &quot;There is nothing to harvest; all our banana plants have been destroyed. What will we do?&quot; she says. As for Caso, even though times are tough, with fewer customers booking beauty treatments, for the time being she is resisting asking others, including her mother, for help. &quot;I want to stand on my own two feet,&quot; she says. Sign up for the Guardian Today Our editors&apos; picks for the day&apos;s top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning. Sign up for the daily email Print this Share Contact us Send to a friend Sender&apos;s name Recipient&apos;s email address Your IP address will be logged Share Short link for this page: http://gu.com/p/3met8 StumbleUpon reddit Tumblr Digg LinkedIn del.icio.us Facebook Twitter Contact us Report errors or inaccuracies: userhelp@theguardian.com Letters for publication should be sent to: letters@theguardian.com If you need help using the site: userhelp@theguardian.com Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000 Advertising guide License/buy our content Article history About this article Life after typhoon Haiyan: Cebu&apos;s struggle to rebuild lives and homes This article was published on the Guardian website at 20.00 EST on Tuesday 4 February 2014. It was last modified at 08.24 EDT on Monday 24 March 2014. Global development Cities and development World news Typhoon Haiyan · Philippines · Asia Pacific · Natural disasters and extreme weather Cities More news More features More on this story Typhoon Haiyan: UK response praised by aid watchdog Swift reaction by Department for International Development mobilised wider donor support for Philippines, says Icai Typhoon Haiyan disaster response: how the relief effort worked Typhoon Haiyan sends coconut farming &apos;back to year zero&apos; Share Tweet this Email Don&apos;t show again Hide Comments Click here to join the discussion. We can&apos;t load the discussion on theguardian.com because you don&apos;t have JavaScript enabled. Today&apos;s best video We&apos;re Going on a Bear Hunt: &apos;The editors were so excited they were nearly weeping&apos; 25 years after its publication, author Michael Rosen and illustrator Helen Oxenbury discuss their children&apos;s classic James Lovelock: give up on saving the planet Gaia theorist previews exhibition at London&apos;s Science Museum The film to watch this week Peter Bradshaw recommends the Iranian film Willow and Wind Call of Duty and the explosive rise of pro gaming Meet the players, sponsors, coaches, parents and pundits GuardianWitness India elections What do you want from a new Indian government? Share your images, videos and experiences Marathons We&apos;d love to see your photos of your London marathon experience, from now to the finish line Vintage Africa: show us your style Vintage dress is having a renaissance across Africa. Share your photos Send us your assignment ideas Do you have an idea for an assignment you think should run on GuardianWitness? Let us know The Guardian&apos;s online dating site Maya_H, 38 Best_aloha, 27 I am a Woman Man Seeking Women Men Men &amp; Women Aged 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 to 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 In Rather not say Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Occupied Territories Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Saint-Barthelemy Saint-Martin Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea Spain Spratly Islands Sri Lanka St Helena Ascension and Tristan da Cunha St. Lucia Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Bahamas The Gambia Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu US Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Within 5 miles 10 miles 20 miles 40 miles 60 miles 100 miles 200 miles 300 miles Of Search On Global development Most viewed Latest Last 24 hours 1.  Colombian democracy took a backward leap with ousting of Bogotá mayor 2. Why does Lebanese bill on domestic violence fail to tackle marital rape? 3. El Salvador groups accuse Pacific Rim of &apos;assault on democratic governance&apos; 4. Disability must be a priority within development programmes, say MPs 5. Slavery experts meet big business to tackle exploitation More most viewed Last 24 hours 1.  El Salvador groups accuse Pacific Rim of &apos;assault on democratic governance&apos; 2. Disability must be a priority within development programmes, say MPs 3. Humanitarian news agency faces closure as UN funding comes to an end 4. Colombian democracy took a backward leap with ousting of Bogotá mayor 5. Why does Lebanese bill on domestic violence fail to tackle marital rape? All today&apos;s stories Follow NSA-related developments as controversy over leaks continues to make headlines Sponsored feature Today in pictures BBC Sports Personality of the Year – in pictures Bradley Wiggins capped his remarkable sporting year by taking home the big prize at the ceremony in London Dinner, dusk and dancing Russians: my best winter shot A glass of wine with a rough sleeper, Santa in trunks, a thousand partying Muscovites … in a My Best Shot special, top photographers pick the image that sums up winter for them Monkey adopts kitten – in pictures Kimon, an eight-year-old pet female long-tailed monkey, treats a kitten as her baby in Bintan Island, Indonesia Hot topics Modern-day slavery Indigenous communities Women&apos;s rights and gender equality Road safety Geography game License/buy our content | Privacy policy | Terms of service | US advertising | A - Z index | About us © 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. Share Tweet this ;
Your Region: National BC Calgary Edmonton Halifax Lethbridge Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg On TV: Entertainment Tonight Canada Sections National National sections Locals Local sections Watch Watch sections Search Sections Health Money Tech Entertainment Environment Science Lifestyle Sports Featured Canada World Politics Investigations Your Region National Change BC Calgary Edmonton Halifax Lethbridge Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg Health Money Tech Entertainment Environment Science Lifestyle Sports Jump to a Region National BC Calgary Edmonton Halifax Lethbridge Montreal National New Brunswick Okanagan Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg WATCH: Dash cam captures incredible cement truck head-on crash Schedule NowEntertainment Tonight Canada 1:00pmDays of Our Lives More Programs Global National The West Block 16×9 The Morning Show More Personalities Dawna Friesen Carolyn Jarvis Liza Fromer Tom Clark More World Prosecutor: Pistorius is untruthful, an egotist Canada Ice may have crushed blue whales to death News How to create a more secure password Canada Apps on a plane! Air Canada to offer Wi-Fi Canada 6 vaccination myths debunked World 1 dead after car crashes into daycare centre Canada Is Poilievre full of baloney on new bill? Entertainment Peaches Geldof autopsy inconclusive Trending The Masters Flight MH370 Heartbleed bug GM Recall Trevor Linden Oscar Pistorius Patrick Brazeau measles Lev Tahor Super Typhoon Haiyan Philippine Canadian Centre of Manitoba January 16, 2014 4:51 pm UPDATE: local group finally ready to send relief money to Philippines By Eric Szeto Reporter/Anchor The Philippine Canadian Centre of Manitoba says it’s ready to send $72,000 in typhoon relief donations to the Philippines. Continue reading → World December 24, 2013 1:31 pm “Every time I lift a child’s body, I could feel that the agony of a parent, a family somewhere, is about to end.” Fire officer Rolando Unay In typhoon’s wake, Christmas infused with tragedy in the Philippines →   What is this? Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News&apos; editorial staff. If you&apos;d like to learn more... What is this ? X What is this? Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News&apos; editorial staff. If you&apos;d like to learn more... More stories below Global News December 21, 2013 7:45 pm “Please hold on. Don’t despair. We have come to help you.” Ban Ki-moon, U.N. Secretary-General UN chief visits typhoon-ravaged Philippine villages → Global News December 18, 2013 1:43 am Secretary of State John Kerry announces $25M in new aid for typhoon-ravaged Philippines The United States is providing nearly $25 million in additional humanitarian aid to help the Philippines deal with the enormous devastation and deaths wrought by Typhoon Haiyan last month. Continue reading → 2013 Year in Review December 17, 2013 10:00 am Weather extremes of 2013 From historic flooding in Calgary, to one of the most powerful typhoons ever recorded, 2013 was a year of weather extremes. Continue reading → Canada December 16, 2013 7:25 pm Canadian disaster assistance team DART being pulled out of the Philippines Canada’s disaster-relief effort in the Philippines is winding up, with the military hoping to get most of its people home for Christmas. Continue reading →   What is this? Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News&apos; editorial staff. If you&apos;d like to learn more... What is this ? X What is this? Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News&apos; editorial staff. If you&apos;d like to learn more... Global News December 13, 2013 12:42 am Death toll from Typhoon Haiyan in Philippines passes 6,000 mark Officials say the death toll from Typhoon Haiyan that struck the central Philippines on Nov. 8 has breached 6,000 with nearly 1,800 people missing. Continue reading → Music December 10, 2013 6:20 pm Justin Bieber raises funds for Typhoon Haiyan victims The Canadian pop star is offering fans who donate to his typhoon relief effort a chance to hang out with him in studio. Continue reading → More stories below Typhoon Haiyan December 8, 2013 12:30 pm One month since Typhoon Haiyan, signs of progress and challenges in Philippine disaster zone The Philippines is currently posting impressive economic growth, but corruption is endemic and the country remains desperately poor, with millions living in slums. Continue reading → Global News December 6, 2013 11:22 am Winnipeggers Show their support for Philippines disaster relief Winnipeg’s Filipino community will host a concert featuring Maria Aragon and Sierra Noble to raise funds for their devastated homeland. Continue reading → Load More Popular Now Baby in Pakistan charged with attempted murder 16542 WATCH: Irish priest belts out &apos;Hallelujah&apos; at wedding 11469 Suspended senator Brazeau faces charges of assault, threats, drug possession 10326 Heartbleed bug: How to create a more secure password 5872 WATCH: Dash cam captures incredible cement truck head-on crash 5503 Featured Content Entertainment Colbert to replace Letterman on ‘Late Show’ Stephen Colbert will succeed David Letterman as the host of “The Late Show” when Letterman retires from the program in 2015. Continue reading → Crime WATCH: Dash cam captures incredible cement truck crash A cement truck flips over and plows head-on into a minivan and the entire incredible collision is captured on a dash cam. Continue reading → Canada Faking it in bed? Your partner can tell If you’re faking the moaning and groaning between the sheets, just stop. New Canadian research suggests your partner can tell you’re not into it. Continue reading → Consumer L.A. suburb declares Sriracha hot sauce factory a public nuisance A Southern California city has declared the factory that produces the popular Sriracha hot sauce a public nuisance. Continue reading → Crime WATCH: Woman mugged while giving TV interview about crime Watch as a thief attempts to rip a necklace from a woman’s neck as she gives a television interview about high crime rates in Rio de Janeiro. Continue reading → World No work emails after 6 p.m. becomes law for some in France With after-hours work emails cutting into employees’ downtime, unions in France have been fighting for a law to put an end to it. Continue reading → Canada Banks say defences in place to keep online info safe from ‘Heartbleed’ Online and mobile banking customers may be concerned about how secure their info is on the Internet. TD Bank says key customer info is safe. Continue reading → Highlights Global teams up with TSN to deliver live coverage of The Masters For the second year in a row, Global is teaming up with TSN to deliver complete coverage of The Masters live from Augusta National. Continue reading → Email alerts Sign up for daily Globalnews.ca newsletters and breaking news alerts Email Address National Daily News National Breaking News By clicking on the submit button, I have read, understood and agreed to our privacy policy Twitter Follow globalnews 10 minutes ago Globalnews.ca @globalnews MORE: Colbert signs 5-year deal to host &apos;The Late Show&apos; when David Letterman retires ow.ly/vEprc 23 minutes ago Globalnews.ca @globalnews Stephen Colbert to replace David Letterman on ‘Late Show’ ow.ly/vEn7d 59 minutes ago Globalnews.ca @globalnews WATCH: Woman mugged while giving TV interview about crime ow.ly/vEgc8 Jump to a Region BC Calgary Edmonton Halifax Lethbridge Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg Connect Facebook Twitter Google+ RSS Contact Us Global News About Us Privacy Policy Principles &amp; Practices Terms &amp; Conditions Copyright Media Advertise Open Data © Shaw Media Inc., 2014. All rights reserved. Shaw Connect Expand News Entertainment Entertainment Home Celebs Movies TV Music Living Lifestyle Food Home &amp; Living Sports Money Tech Travel Breaktime Autos Watch TV Online All Sites Global Global News Food Network HGTV History Television Showcase Slice DTOUR ET Canada National Geographic Movietime Lifetime H2 DIY Action NG Wild Mystery IFC BBC Deja Vu Twist
Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today&apos;s Paper Video Most Popular Times Topics Search All NYTimes.com Thursday, April 10, 2014 World World Africa Americas Asia Pacific Europe Middle East U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Report an Error E-MAIL Typhoon Haiyan (2013) News about Typhoon Haiyan (2013), including commentary and archival articles published in The New York Times. Chronology of Coverage Feb. 4, 2014 Once-thriving Philippine city of Tacloban shows relatively few signs of economic recovery nearly three months after Typhoon Haiyan ravaged the area, despite an international rescue effort; many residents who are able to leave are looking for jobs in other parts of the country.MORE » Jan. 15, 2014 Op-Ed article by Tim Hanstad and Roy Prosterman, executives at nonprofit group Landesa, contends the developing world&apos;s landless poor routinely bear the brunt of natural disasters like Typhoon Haiyan; urges international community to push for enforcement of long-ignored land tenure reform laws in the Philippines.MORE » Jan. 2, 2014 Filipino furniture designer Kenneth Cobonpue has produced miniature vernacular metal houses that hold tea lights; sale proceeds will help Habitat for Humanity Philippines build shelters for victims of November typhoon.MORE » Dec. 25, 2013 Five siblings orphaned after Typhoon Haiyan who disappeared from an evacuation center in Tacloban turn up safely in orphanage in Manila; story of how siblings wound up there underlines the depths of the country&apos;s confused child protection system.MORE » Dec. 19, 2013 Secretary of State John Kerry tours miles of roofless homes and shattered shantytowns in a Philippine city destroyed by Typhoon Haiyan and announces that additional aid will be sent to the Philippines.MORE » Dec. 14, 2013 Landowners in Philippines are thwarting rebuilding efforts of area squatters in aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan; land disputes at settlements and shantytowns up and down coast are among many reasons recovery effort in nation is faltering.MORE » Dec. 11, 2013 United Nations and international aid groups say push to protect women from rape and help them deliver babies in the aftermath of a typhoon in the Philippines remains troubled and inadequate; loosely coordinated effort is aimed at assisting 65,000 women deemed at risk of sexual assault and an estimated 1,000 women giving birth each day in regions ravaged by the November typhoon.MORE » Dec. 6, 2013 Jason Day, who lost eight relatives when Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines, receives comforting words from fans at golf&apos;s World Challenge.MORE » Nov. 28, 2013 Acts of heroism abound in the Philippines after Typhoon Haiyan, with many people struggling to help others find food and shelter; episodes reflect remarkable will to endure among people of all ages there, often with special emphasis on ensuring the survival of children.MORE » Nov. 24, 2013 Bodies continue to be recovered from debris in the Philippines two weeks after Typhoon Haiyan struck.MORE » Nov. 23, 2013 Official death toll for Typhoon Haiyan exceeds 5,200, confirming that storm was one of the Philippines’s deadliest ever recorded.MORE » Nov. 22, 2013 Impact of Typhoon Haiyan in Philippines has reignited a long-running argument in United States, world’s largest food aid donor, over how US supplies food in its $1.4 billion international food aid program; Obama administration and some lawmakers say disaster underscores need for flexibility to buy less expensive food closer to areas where such disasters occur.MORE » Nov. 22, 2013 Residents of Tacloban, Philippines, describe pillaging of stores in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan as a necessity, even though the pillaging sometimes went far beyond necessities.MORE » Nov. 22, 2013 Crucial geothermal operations on Philippine island of Ormoc were damaged by Typhoon Haiyan; damage exemplifies a broader paradox for many in the country, namely a storm consistent with scientists&apos; warnings about climate change crippling one of the world&apos;s biggest success stories of renewable energy.MORE » Nov. 21, 2013 United Nations has already raised $129 million, about half the amount it requested in an emergency appeal to provide typhoon disaster relief in the Philippines.MORE » Nov. 20, 2013 Destructive fury of Typhoon Haiyan has focused an unflattering spotlight on the Philippine military, overstretched and poorly funded force that has been criticized for its late arrival to the disaster zone.MORE » Nov. 20, 2013 Social workers and parents in the Philippines warn that the country will be left with the challenge of caring for children traumatized by Typhoon Haiyan after their immediate needs are met, challenge that includes rebuilding schools and helping children recover emotionally.MORE » Nov. 19, 2013 Medical care is finally beginning to improve in areas hit by Typhoon Haiyan, with 62 foreign or Filipino medical teams working in areas with the most damage.MORE » Nov. 19, 2013 Philippines is faced with the huge problem of feeding and housing about four million people displaced by Typhoon Haiyan, 350,000 of which are living in about 1,500 evacuation centers; officials report that about 2.5 million people require food aid.MORE » Nov. 19, 2013 The Week column; typhoon that struck Philippines prompts questions about possible link between natural disasters and warming planet; other significant news in science and medicine highlighted.MORE » Nov. 19, 2013 Exact strength of Typhoon Haiyan has been difficult to gauge due to limitations in measurement tools; precise data on intensity of such storms is important to scientists, particularly those trying to determine effects of climate change on weather.MORE » Nov. 18, 2013 International relief efforts that have mobilized in Tacloban and other coastal cities in the Philippines are nowhere to be seen in country&apos;s interior, where large numbers of injured and sick people continue to languish in aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan; local leaders describe increasing rates of fever and diarrhea, warning that no medical supplies, food, water or shelter have yet to arrive from outside.MORE » Nov. 18, 2013 Churches, community groups and individuals have stepped in to perform relief work in areas of Philippines where local governments&apos; capacity to respond to devastation of Typhoon Haiyan has been greatly diminished.MORE » Nov. 17, 2013 Routine United Nations international climate change conference in Warsaw has turned into an emotional forum in wake of Typhoon Haiyan, which killed thousands in the Philippines; developing countries demand compensation from the worst polluting countries for environmental damage they say they are already suffering.MORE » Nov. 17, 2013 Relief supplies have finally begun to reach typhoon-ravaged midsection of Philippines, but rural areas and far-flung islets have yet to receive adequate supplies.MORE » Nov. 16, 2013 Slow and troubled relief effort for Typhoon Haiyan causes needless deaths like that of Richard Pulga, who died from complications of a broken leg; medicine, food and water have been held up for days as rescue teams struggled to operate amid the chaos of Tacloban, Philippines.MORE » Nov. 16, 2013 Relief operations and efforts to collect dead bodies after Typhoon Haiyan are proceeding slowly in Tacloban, Philippines, and nearby cities and towns, with thousands of residents remaining hungry and homeless.MORE » Nov. 15, 2013 Aftermath of the Philippines typhoon is now threatening the country with outbreaks of debilitating and potentially fatal diseases, including some thought to have been nearly eradicated; collapse in sanitation is contributing to outbreaks, as well as shortages of fresh water and emergency health teams&apos; inability to respond quickly.MORE » Nov. 15, 2013 Some residents of Tacloban, Philippines, blame slow relief efforts on the family of Imelda Marcos, who have long been revered in the area; Imelda Marcos&apos;s family, Romualdez clan, has dominated local politics for generations.MORE » Nov. 15, 2013 Outpouring of foreign assistance for the Philippines in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan is shaping up to be a monumental show of international largess; amount of foreign aid is also a not-so-subtle dose of one-upmanship directed at China, which has been notably penurious.MORE » Nov. 15, 2013 Op-Ed article by author Gina Apostol describes the history of city of Tacloban, Philippines, which has been devastated by Typhoon Haiyan; points out city has been marked by a surrender to awesome forces; suggests resilience of its people may be part of the problem, as they blame inept governance while continuing to elect politicians who do not serve their needs.MORE » Nov. 14, 2013 Main hospital in Tacloban, Philippine city that bore the brunt of Typhoon Haiyan, lacks supplies to help wounded, with some just left to die; there is no electricity and even the most basic necessities are in extremely short supply; Red Cross and other aid agencies are trying to rush supplies to Tacloban, but have encountered delays.MORE » Nov. 14, 2013 Philippines&apos; Pres Benigno S Aguino III is facing growing public anger over government&apos;s slow relief effort for devastating Typhoon Haiyan.MORE » Nov. 14, 2013 Typhoon gridlock threatens rescue operations in most devastated part of Philippines, with aid piling up but few ways to distribute it, plentiful gasoline but no merchants willing to sell it, and influx of emergency volunteers but no place to house them.MORE » Nov. 13, 2013 Increasingly desperate survivors of Typhoon Haiyan mob the shattered airport in Tacloban, the Philippines, begging for food, water or a flight to escape chaotic aftermath of the storm; international officials express worry that bottlenecks and delays could prevent emergency supplies from reaching millions of victims for days.MORE » Nov. 13, 2013 Medical experts say that the unburied dead bodies in the central Philippines that have nauseated survivors of Typhoon Haiyan are not a significant public health hazard, despite claims to the contrary; assert that the dead in this disaster are not considered carriers of germs that can infect the living.MORE » Nov. 13, 2013 Editorial warns that relief efforts in the Philippines are facing serious obstacles as huge numbers of survivors of Typhoon Haiyan grow desperate for aid; contends faster evacuation may be the only way to save more lives in the future and urges Philippine officials to re-examine early warning systems and evacuation procedures once the crisis is past.MORE » Nov. 12, 2013 Typhoon Haiyan, among most powerful in history, slams into Tacloban, the Philippines, leaving destroyed buildings on every road and damage so great it is hard to tally; mass graves in once-thriving city of 220,000 begin to fill as relief efforts struggle to get underway.MORE » Nov. 12, 2013 Valerie Amos, top United Nations relief official, flies to the Philippines to help lead the global response to powerful Typhoon Haiyan that killed thousands and upended the lives of nearly 10 million people; seeks to take charge of relief efforts as international aid groups mobilize to rush supplies to the victims despite impassable roads, obliterated seaports and severely damaged airstrips.MORE » Nov. 12, 2013 Members of Filipino community in Los Angeles have been left feeling helpless as they struggle to reach loved ones and try to figure out what they can do to help in the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan.MORE » Nov. 12, 2013 Typhoon Haiyan that struck the Philippines produces an outpouring of emotion at United Nations talks on a global climate treaty in Warsaw, where delegates are quick to suggest that a warming planet had turned the storm into a lethal monster.MORE » Nov. 11, 2013 Typhoon Haiyan finishes plowing through the Philippines and takes a right turn over the South China Sea, avoiding central coast of Vietnam; makes landfall much farther north near the Chinese border.MORE » Nov. 10, 2013 Philippine government can only confirm 150 deaths so far from Typhoon Haiyan, but many estimates say actual death toll could be in thousands.MORE » Nov. 9, 2013 Powerful typhoon rips through the Philippines, killing more than 100 people in city of Tacloban and forcing evacuation of hundreds of thousands; storm, by some accounts, ranks among world&apos;s strongest.MORE » Nov. 9, 2013 Patrons of Krystal&apos;s Cafe and Pastry Shop, a Filipino restaurant in Woodside, Queens, express worries about family members at home as Typhoon Haiyan approaches the Philippines; area around Woodside, where more than 13,000 Filipinos live, is often referred to as Little Manila.MORE » Show More Loading There are no additional abstracts to display. ARTICLES ABOUT TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) Newest First | Oldest First Page: 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | Next &gt;&gt; Buddhist Volunteers Aiding Anxious Families in Beijing By BREE FENG and KEITH BRADSHER As relatives in Beijing await news from the missing Malaysian Airlines jetliner, volunteers from the Tzu Chi Foundation, a Buddhist charitable organization headquartered in Taiwan, have been busy offering counseling and other assistance. March 13, 2014, Thursday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: Philippines, Malaysia, China, Taiwan, Beijing (China), Malaysia Airlines, Tzu Chi Foundation, International Committee of the Red Cross, Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, Buddhism, Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Philanthropy, Aviation Accidents and Safety South China Sea Tensions a Backdrop to Kerry&apos;s China Visit By KEITH BRADSHER Chinese officials take exception to statements by a U.S. Navy admiral that Washington would fulfill its obligations under a mutual defense treaty to help the Philippines if it came under attack February 14, 2014, Friday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: Obama, Barack, Greenert, Jonathan W, Kerry, John, Aquino, Benigno S III, China, South China Sea, Philippines, Manila (Philippines), Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas, United Nations, Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Typhoon Bopha (2012), United States International Relations, Defense and Military Forces Population Patterns and Vulnerability to Climate Hazards By ANDREW C. REVKIN High fertility rates and an urban rush in poor places vulnerable to climate threats spell trouble. February 10, 2014, Monday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: Philippines, Floods, Disasters and Emergencies, Poverty, Population, Birth Control and Family Planning, Weather, Typhoon Haiyan (2013) Philippine Rebuilding Gregory A. Cendana of the Asian Pacific American Labor Alliance discusses the need for post-typhoon aid. February 10, 2014, Monday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: United States, Filipino-Americans, American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations, Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Philippines Two Families Battered by a Typhoon By KEITH BRADSHER The Picas, who struggled to keep a baby born during Typhoon Haiyan alive, are piecing their lives back together in Tacloban, while some of the Siozans, who lost their patriarch from an infection, have left. February 4, 2014, Tuesday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: Tacloban (Philippines), Philippines, Typhoon Haiyan (2013) Months After Typhoon, Philippine City Suffers From an Exodus of Jobs By KEITH BRADSHER Nearly three months after a ruinous typhoon, Tacloban, once a thriving center, shows few signs of recovery, and those who can are leaving to find jobs elsewhere. February 4, 2014, Tuesday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: Labor and Jobs, Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Tacloban (Philippines), Electric Light and Power, Philippines Journalists on the Environment Beat Look Ahead By ANDREW C. REVKIN Seasoned journalists covering the environment explore themes that will be in headlines this year, and some that won’t, but should be. January 27, 2014, Monday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: News and News Media, Obama, Barack, Environment, Exxon Mobil Corporation, Energy and Power, Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Regulation and Deregulation of Industry, Endangered and Extinct Species, Carbon Dioxide, Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline, Biodiversity, Invasive Species, Global Warming, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Coal, Hydraulic Fracturing, Clean Air Act, Air Pollution, Electric Light and Power, Corporations Conjuring the Global Dangers of Water By NEIL GENZLINGER Hurricane Sandy involved a gradual storm surge, over 24 hours, a “Nova” program says, while the surge of Haiyan, in the Philippines, occurred in just minutes. January 22, 2014, Wednesday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: Tidal Waves and Tsunamis, Hurricane Sandy (2012), Water, Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Public Broadcasting Service, Television, Weather How the Poor Get Washed Away By TIM HANSTAD and ROY PROSTERMAN Poor people who don’t own land routinely bear the brunt of natural disasters. January 15, 2014, Wednesday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: Evacuations and Evacuees, Haiti, Philippines, Odisha (India), Tacloban (Philippines), Squatters, Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Typhoons, Aceh Province (Indonesia), Land Use Policies, Earthquakes, Typhoon Bopha (2012), Third World and Developing Countries In Tiny Houses, Hope Lives By ARLENE HIRST Designed to benefit typhoon victims, the houses shelter flickering candles. January 2, 2014, Thursday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: Interior Design and Furnishings, Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Philippines, Cobonpue, Kenneth Video: Left Without Mother, Girl Reflects on Typhoon By THE NEW YORK TIMES Jhoanna Awaaw, 11, lives in the ruins of her family’s seaside home in Tacloban, the Philippines. December 31, 2013, Tuesday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: Tacloban (Philippines), Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Philippines Times Minute | JPMorgan&apos;s Hiring By QUYN DO Also on the Minute, brainlike computers and a look back at Typhoon Haiyan. December 30, 2013, Monday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: JPMorgan Chase &amp; Company, Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Artificial Intelligence A New Jolt to Filipino Siblings Orphaned by a Typhoon By KEITH BRADSHER The disappearance of five siblings from a Tacloban evacuation center raised alarms about human trafficking, but they surfaced in an orphanage, reflecting a confused child protection system. December 25, 2013, Wednesday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: Deaths (Fatalities), Centino, Frederick, Pascual, Jesper Anne, Philippines, Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Pascual, Janino, Palo, Jornalyn, Tacloban (Philippines), Orphans and Orphanages, Pascual, Jomar Kerry Calls Typhoon a Warning of Climate Change By KEITH BRADSHER Secretary of State John Kerry toured miles of roofless homes and shattered shantytowns in a Philippine city and announced that additional aid would be sent to the Philippines. December 19, 2013, Thursday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: Kerry, John, Humanitarian Aid, Romualdez, Alfred S, Aquino, Benigno S III, Deaths (Fatalities), Tacloban (Philippines), Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Philippines, United Nations Philip Glass and Tyondai Braxton Join a Benefit for the Philippines By ALLAN KOZINN A concert at Le Poisson Rouge on Thursday will raise money for disaster relief in the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan. December 17, 2013, Tuesday MORE ON TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013) AND: Braxton, Tyondai, Glass, Philip, Typhoon Haiyan (2013), Classical Music SEARCH 93 ARTICLES ABOUT TYPHOON HAIYAN (2013): Match Any Word Match All Words Match Exact Phrase Page: 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | Next &gt;&gt; Multimedia Video Interview With President Aquino President Benigno S. Aquino III of the Philippines called for nations around the world to support his country in resisting China. He also talked about the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan. Video Born While Floods Surge Yolando was born during the worst of typhoon Haiyan. He lives with his family in a region devastated by the storm. Video Tacloban Three Months Later Nearly three months after Typhoon Haiyan devastated the Philippines, many still live in tents with little electricity. Keith Bradsher reports from Tacloban. Video Times Minute | A Push for Pre-K State-funded preschool becomes a bipartisan issue. Also on the Minute, genetic testing on embryos and a miracle in Tacloban, the Philippines. Video Lost in the Storm An 11-year-old girl reflects on all that she lost when her home in Tacloban, the Philippines, was devastated by a typhoon in November. Video Times Minute | JPMorgan&apos;s Hiring Also on the Minute, brainlike computers and a look back at Typhoon Haiyan. Slide Show Squatters in the Philippines Face Obstacles in Their Rebuilding Efforts Following Typhoon Haiyan, squatters face a second evection. Video Photographer&apos;s Journal: Sergey Ponomarev Covering the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan was a challenging assignment in many ways. Sergey Ponomarev, a freelance photographer, reflects on his experience. Video Photographer&apos;s Journal: Jes Aznar Covering the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines was an emotional experience for Jes Aznar, who himself is Filipino. Video Photographer&apos;s Journal: Bryan Denton After covering the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan in Guiuan, Philippines, freelance photographer Bryon Denton reflects on his experience. More Multimedia » MOST POPULAR E-Mailed Searched A Little Pizza Homework Best, Brightest and Rejected: Elite Colleges Turn Away Up to 95% Sliver of Medicare Doctors Get Big Share of Payouts Education Life: What You Don’t Know About Financial Aid (but Should) Op-Ed Columnist: What Suffering Does Bits: Experts Find a Door Ajar in an Internet Security Method Thought Safe Papyrus Referring to Jesus’ Wife Is More Likely Ancient Than Fake, Scientists Say Political Ties of Top Billers for Medicare How to Make Great Pizza Dough Flaw Calls for Altering Passwords, Experts Say Go to Complete List » june 10, 2012 china teacher job bill google facebook food and fadwa tony awards mad men maureen dowd paul krugman Go to Complete List » © 2014 The New York Times Company Site Map Privacy Your Ad Choices Advertise Terms of Sale Terms of Service Work With Us RSS Help Contact Us Site Feedback Manage My Account News Tracker Create Alert Manage Alerts
Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines | UNDP Skip to main navigation Skip to language selector Skip to content Skip to footer UNDP around the world close Many of UNDP&apos;s relationships with countries and territories on the ground exceed 60 years. Find details on our successes and ongoing work. Afghanistan Albania Algeria Angola Argentina Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo (Dem. Republic of) Congo (Republic of) Costa Rica Côte d&apos;Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Democratic People&apos;s Republic of Korea Denmark (Rep. Office) Djibouti Dominican Republic E.U (Rep. Office) Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Ethiopia Fiji (Multi-country Office) Finland (Rep. Office) Gabon Gambia Geneva (Rep. Office) Georgia Ghana Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras India Indonesia Iran Iraq (Republic of) Jamaica Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kosovo (as per UNSCR 1244) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao PDR Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Mauritania Mauritius &amp; Seychelles Mexico Moldova Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway (Rep. Office) Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Programme of Assistance to the Palestinian People Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Samoa (Multi-country Office) São Tomé and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Sierra Leone Somalia South Africa South Sudan Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden (Rep. Office) Syria Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Timor-Leste Togo Tokyo (Rep. Office) Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates Uruguay Uzbekistan Venezuela Viet Nam Washington (Rep. Office) Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Regional Presence Much of UNDP’s work is administered through 5 regional bureaus. Africa Arab States Asia and the Pacific Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States Latin America and the Caribbean About Us Publications News Centre Multimedia English Español Français United Nations Development Programme Our Work Millennium Development Goals Our Perspective Poverty Reduction Democratic Governance Crisis Prevention&amp; Recovery Environment &amp; Energy HIV /AIDS Women&apos;s Empowerment Capacity Development Home Our Work Crisis Prevention &amp; Recovery Projects &amp; Initiatives Crisis Prevention &amp; Recovery Our Stories Our Projects News Focus Areas Projects &amp; Initiatives Crisis Prevention and Recovery Thematic Trust Fund Research &amp; Publications Knowledge Sharing Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines Before and After: One hundred days after the typhoon, children’s voices and smiles returned to the halls of the newly cleaned school following the intense UNDP clearing of the storm debris. Photo: Quentin Musset and Baudouin Nachtergaele Locally known as Yolanda, Typhoon Haiyan made landfall on 8 November in the Philippines’ Eastern Samar province. With record winds and sea surges, the storm caused massive damage and casualties in 9 regions of the Philippines, affecting almost 15 million people and displacing 4 million. Highlights Almost 15 million people have been affected by super typhoon Haiyan in 9 regions of the Philippines and over 4 million displaced. The debris removal and waste management are part of a US $46 million early recovery plan funded by the Government of Japan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, the Central Emergency Response Fund and UNDP. To meet the urgent needs of the devastated communities, UNDP is seeking another US $35 million. In the immediate aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan, UNDP and its partners launched an Early Recovery Programme, which began with emergency employment cash-for-work in debris and waste removal in the most affected areas. Within the span of a month, many of the main streets were cleared of storm debris, which enabled relief workers full access to reach typhoon-affected residents, and kick start the recovery and rebuilding process. UNDP’s recovery programme aims to help build back better in support of stronger, more resilient and thriving communities able to withstand future super storms. This approach is built on meeting the immediate needs of affected-communities by kickstarting recovery through initiatives which support the removal of debris and waste, and generating emergency employment while also creating conditions for long-term recovery, resilience and sustainable development. Proceeds from the 11th Match Against Poverty, which will take place on 4 March 2014 at the Stade De Suisse National Stadium in Bern, Switzerland, will help support recovery efforts in the Philippines. Our recovery programme Restoration of local governance and re-establishment of service delivery This project ensures all affected populations have access to basic service delivery and get to participate in and to lead planning in post recovery efforts in the future.Duration: 2 years Budget: US$ 5,000,000 View more Resilient and renewable energy systems for local government centers and designated resettlement sites Functional renewable energy systems will provide affordable energy to affected service centers and relocated households in the poorest areas.Duration: 2.5 years Budget: US$ 4,000,000 View more Emergency employment: Job creation through debris and solid waste management The package is designed to provide an immediate recovery response through cash-for-work in debris management and in solid waste management for 104,000 people. Duration: 1 year Budget: US$ 21,000,000 View more Livelihoods stabilization and economic recovery through green jobs The programme aims to catalyze livelihoods and economic recovery through community-based investment in green jobs and sustainable energy for 56,000 people. Duration: 1 year Budget: US$ 21,000,000 View more Tapping overseas remittances and micro-finance for local recovery The project will establish a revolving fund to revive local economies by providing microfinance to micro and small enterprises, and enhance financial literacy and business proficiency of target clients. Duration: 3 years Budget: US$ 3,000,000 View more Small grants for recovery of affected communities The initiative aims to establish or re-establish/restore forest and coastal management programs with local communities and promote sustainable and resilient economic activities in typhoon-affected regions. Duration: 2.5 years Budget: US$ 3,859,000 View more Disaster risk reduction activities The recovery programme is an opportunity to engage in disaster risk assessments, with a view to building disaster resilience. Duration: 3 years Budget: US$ 2,728,500 View more Overview of the recovery programme. Total budget : US $63,578,500 SHARE Make a donation Our next match supports relief efforts in the Philippines — and you can too For more information Match Against Poverty in support of the recovery efforts Our Work: Disaster Risk Reduction Our Work: Immediate Crisis Response UNDP in the Philippines Latest news 27 Mar 2014: UN development chief reaffirms support to Typhoon Haiyan recovery 27 Mar 2014: Japan and UNDP intensify support to Yolanda recovery efforts 14 Mar 2014: Grassroots women: Game changers in the fight against corruption View More Latest publications UNDP&apos;s Support to Typhoon Recovery and Resilience in the Visayas: Livelihoods (February 2014) UNDP&apos;s Support to Typhoon Recovery and Resilience in the Visayas (15 January 2014 update) View More Our perspective 14 Feb 2014: 100 days after Haiyan, the Philippines transitions to recovery | Jo Scheuer View More Photo gallery View more on Flickr Video gallery View more videos on YouTube Find Us On Facebook Youtube Twitter Our Work Poverty Reduction Democratic Governance Crisis Prevention &amp; Recovery Environment &amp; Energy HIV / AIDS Women&apos;s Empowerment Capacity Development 2013 Human Development Report Millennium Development Goals 1Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger 2Achieve universal primary education 3Promote gender equality and empower women 4Reduce child mortality 5Improve maternal health 6Combat HIV / AIDS, malaria and other diseases 7Ensure environmental sustainability 8Develop a global partnership for development Our Perspective Inequality at the crossroads | George Gray Molina 04 Apr 2014 After a decade that recorded a drop in income inequality in Latin America, new data shows the trend has stagnated across the region. Jobs Tenders Terms of Use Transparency Anti-Fraud Hotline Scam Alert Projects Get Involved! Contact us Find us Facebook Twitter YouTube © 2014 United Nations Development Programme  Turn high contrast mode on
Filmmaker from Hawaii releases documentary about Typhoon Haiyan - Hawaii News Now - KGMB and KHNL SITE SEARCH WEB SEARCH BY LIVE STREAM Hawaii News Now Investigates H1 Rehab Project Facebook Twitter Download our Mobile Apps Blogs EEO Public File Reports 2013 H1 Rehab Project Hawaii News Now Investigates LIVE STREAM Every morning on Sunrise Sunrise features Hurricane Center Tsunami Center Interactive Radar 7 day forecast Surf Report Vog Forecast Pacific Satellite Center Bracket Busters College Sports News Baseball Football Rainbow Warriors: Inside The Huddle Basketball Main Tax Guide Entertainment Money Home/Family Health Food Pets Tech Travel Beauty &amp; Style Auto VideoBytes Press Releases TV Listings America Now CBS Video Player NBC Video Player KHNL Antenna TV Community Care Moms In Hawaii HI Achievers Local connection Good Things Pet Connections Contests / Promotions Anchors / Reporters News Department Sales Department Marketing / Online Departments Digital Sales Blogs Jobs EEO Public File Reports 2013 Filmmaker from Hawaii releases documentary about Typhoon Haiyan Posted: Tuesday, February 25, 2014 2:31 AM EST Updated: Tuesday, February 25, 2014 4:21 AM EST By Mileka Lincoln - bio | email Courtesy: Ricky Fosheim Courtesy: Ricky Fosheim Courtesy: Ricky Fosheim Anthony Begonia Ricky Fosheim HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Three months after Super Typhoon Haiyan devastated the Philippines, the destruction and relief struggles are no longer dominating headlines -- but a filmmaker from Hawai&apos;i is hoping to change that. &quot;The world needs to see what happened and the world needs to know they can still support what&apos;s going on,&quot; said Anthony Begonia, documentary producer of  &quot;Bayanihan: The Spirit Of Community&quot;. According to the 2010 U.S. Census, Filipinos and part-Filipinos make up the second-largest racial group in Hawaii. It&apos;s clear our community&apos;s ties run deep -- more than $1.75 million dollars was raised at &quot;Kokua for the Philippines&quot;, despite severe weather canceling the television broadcast and outdoor concerts. Begonia, whose family is from Kaua&apos;i and who is of Filipino descent, hopes his documentary will remind Haiyan victims they are not forgotten. &quot;We hope that it can soften the hearts of people.  We believe that what we can&apos;t sometimes see, we can&apos;t really grieve -- but we have a chance to see it now and maybe we can have some empathy towards what happened there,&quot; Begonia said. Armed with a camera and fueled by faith, Begonia and documentary director and cinematographer, Ricky Fosheim, landed in Tacloban ten days after Haiyan killed 6,000 people.  Three months later, nearly 2,000 are still missing. &quot;They have so little to begin with and then all of that was taken away from them, and they just welcomed us with open arms.  We ate with them, we laughed with them, we cried with them.  We were embraced in their community and it felt so good to be appreciated to be there,&quot; Fosheim described. Begonia and Fosheim chronicled two Salvation Army cadets who were searching for missing family members. &quot;We didn&apos;t know what was going to happen, it was reality filming at its finest.  We were just covering what we could with very limited resources,&quot; Begonia explained. The filmmakers hope their documentary will remind people of the hundreds of millions of dollars still needed for food and emergency shelter. According to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, $78.7 million is still needed in food security assistance and more than $132 million is needed for emergency shelter. &quot;100% of a donation to the Salvation Army for the relief effort in Tacloban goes directly to the people of Philippines,&quot; explained John Chamness, the Divisional Commander of Salvation Army Hawaiian Pacific Islands Division.  &quot;I think it&apos;s always important for the people of Hawai&apos;i, as we have always done in the past, to reach out and help our neighbors in need.  We have such a great connection with the Philippines, many friends and family live in the Philippines and vice versa many people from the Philippines live here in Hawai&apos;i, and those are our brothers and sisters, those are our neighbors, those are the people we have relationships with.  We need to continue to support and help the people in the Philippines,&quot; Chamness said. Typhoon Haiyan displaced an estimated four million people in the Philippines -- that&apos;s more than Hurricane Katrina and the Indian Ocean tsunami combined. &quot;The problems actually get worse for many people, they don&apos;t get better.  Our hope is that people don&apos;t forget about everything that happened,&quot; Fosheim said. &quot;Sadness could&apos;ve been something we saw everywhere, but the spirit of the Filipino people was truly evident.  They never give up,&quot; described Begonia. The documentary premiered Monday night on the Salvation Army Vision network and is available online.  Filmmakers cut more than 28 hours of footage into 26 minutes. Watch it here: http://www.savn.tv/campaign/view/1150    Follow Mileka Lincoln:        Copyright 2014 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.  Explore HawaiiNewsNow.com Home News Sunrise Weather Sports Video Lifestyle What&apos;s On Community About Us News Local News National News International News Political News Features Strange News Email Alerts Sunrise Every Morning on Sunrise Every Week on Sunrise Sunrise Special Features Sunrise Videos Sunrise Archives Weather 7 Day Forecast Surf Report Interactive Radar Tides Severe Weather Hurricane Tracker Pacific Satellite Center Sports Local Sports UH Sports College Sports MLB NFL NBA Video Lifestyle What&apos;s On TV Listings NBC Player CBS Player America Now Community About Us Anchors and Reporters News Department Sales Department Marketing/Online Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Watch us on YouTube ConnectNOW Closed Captioning KHNL FCC Public File KHNLpublicfile @hawaiinewsnow.com 808-847-3246 EEO Report KGMB FCC Public File KGMBpublicfile @hawaiinewsnow.com 808-847-3246 EEO Report All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 WorldNow and KHNL, a Raycom Media Station. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please read our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
VOA Sites by Language Top Stories: Ukraine Offers Protesters Amnesty UN Approves New CAR Peacekeeping Force English WorldwideEnglishvoanews.comLearning Englishlearningenglish.voanews.com Eastern &amp; Central EuropeShqipZeriamerikes.comBosanskivijestiglasaamerike.comΕλληνικάgr.voanews.comМакедонскиmk.voanews.comSrpskiglasamerike.netУкраїнськаchastime.com EurasiaՀայերենamerikayidzayn.comAzerbaijaniamerikaninsesi.orgქართულიamerikiskhma.comРусскийgolos-ameriki.ru Central AsiaO‘zbekamerikaovozi.com East &amp; Southeast AsiaBurmeseburmese.voanews.com粵語voacantonese.com中文voachinese.comBahasa Indonesiavoaindonesia.comខ្មែរkhmer.voanews.comKhmervoacambodia.com한국어voakorea.comລາວlao.voanews.comไทยvoathai.comབོད་ཡིགvoatibetan.comTibetanvoatibetanenglish.comTiếng Việtvoatiengviet.com South Asiaবাংলাvoabangla.comدریdarivoa.comپښتوpashtovoa.comوی او اې ډيوه ريډیوvoadeewaradio.comاردوurduvoa.com AfricaAfaan Oromoovoaafaanoromoo.comአማርኛamharic.voanews.comFrançaislavoixdelamerique.comHausavoahausa.comKinyarwandaradiyoyacuvoa.comKirundiradiyoyacuvoa.comNdebelevoandebele.comPortuguêsvoaportugues.comShonavoashona.comSoomaaligavoasomali.comKiswahilivoaswahili.comትግርኛtigrigna.voanews.comZimbabwevoazimbabwe.com Middle East / North Africaفارسیir.voanews.comكوردیdengiamerika.comKurdidengeamerika.comTürkçeamerikaninsesi.com Latin AmericaCreolevoanouvel.comEspañolvoanoticias.com VOA Log in Sign up Log out Home USA Africa Asia Mideast Europe Science &amp; Tech Health Entertainment Economy Programs Audio menu Listen Global News &amp; Music  Latest Newscast International Edition Africa Live Global Live Music Mix Latest Newscast News / Asia Philippines Coconut Industry Struggles to Recover after Typhoon Haiyan Print Comment Share: Philippines Coconut Industry Struggles to Recover after Typhon Haiyan i ▶ ▶ || 0:00:00 ... ⇱   🔇 ▶ ▶ X March 07, 2014 After Typhoon Haiyan devastated the Philippines, parts of the archipelago nation are still recovering. Among those hardest hit were farmers, nearly half of whom harvest coconuts. Jason Strother reports from Leyte province, where efforts to revitalize the coconut farming industry are underway. Philippines Coconut Industry Struggles to Recover after Typhon Haiyan Tweet Related Articles  Search for the Missing Continues in Tacloban, Philippines TEXT SIZE - + Jason Strother / Malte Kollenberg March 07, 2014 TACLOBAN, PHILIPPINES — Last December, Typhoon Haiyan&apos;s destructive winds devastated the Philippines. Parts of the archipelago nation are still recovering. Among those hardest hit were farmers, nearly half of whom harvest coconuts. In Leyte province, efforts to revitalize the coconut farming industry are underway.   Before the storm, farmers at a farm in rural Leyte harvested the dried meat, or copra, of coconuts to make oil, but Typhoon Haiyan’s destruction has made the future of this and many other small plantations unclear.   The farm’s caretaker, Arnulflo Barcero, 52, said the typhoon knocked out the large majority of the farm&apos;s trees.   “Before the typhoon we had 700 trees and now there are only 90 trees still standing. It’s a problem for the community because we rely on the copras to earn a living,” said Barcero.   Around 40 percent of farmers in Leyte province work in the coconut industry.  The downed trees mean they have nothing to sell and the help they employ have no work. But for others, the devastation is creating income.   Francisco Alverca, a chainsaw operator who has been called in to help cut up the fallen and damaged trees, is one of those benefiting.    “I think it will take several months to complete all the work here, it is a big property,” said Alverca.   Alverca and other chainsaw operators are employed in the many sawmills around Leyte province. International aid groups hire them and train local farmers to use saws to clear the land of dead trees so new ones can be planted. Now, coconut lumber is in high demand.   The wood is transported from the ruined farms to the city of Tacloban to build shelters for those displaced by the typhoon.   Around 100 families in the town of Palo are rebuilding their own homes with the freshly cut lumber.     Rice farmer Rudolfo Palamos, 74, had his entire house ripped apart by Haiyan’s strong winds.   “This area has a lot of coconut trees. The wood isn’t so expensive and it’s easy to build with.  Most of my house was rebuilt with the coconut tree lumber, including the walls, the corner posts,” said Palamos.   There are many more fallen trees back in the plantations. But there is concern that time is running out to cut them up.   Caroline Gluck, with OXFAM, an aid group that oversees six sawmill programs in Leyte province, said time is of the essence.   “In three months the likelihood is that many of these trees will rot and become infested with pests. And those pests can eat some of the still standing and productive trees,” said Gluck.   Once the downed trees are cleared, aid groups can start helping coconut farmers replant on their land, but it could take several more years before new trees are ready for harvest. Print Comment Share: Tweet You May Like Turkish PM&apos;s Presidential Bid Faces Bumpy Road While some observers argue ruling party&apos;s victory in recent local elections opens door for Erdogan to run in August’s race, his run likely to be fraught with obstacles More Insurgent Bombings in Southern Thailand Target Local Economy The recent bombings were the first major attack since authorities adopted tighter security measures after a wave of bombings two years ago More  Health Care Workers Struggle to Contain Guinea Ebola Outbreak World Health Organization calls West Africa outbreak among the most challenging ever More This forum has been closed. Comments       There are no comments in this forum. Be first and add one Complete Coverage Featured Videos Your JavaScript is turned off or you have an old version of Adobe&apos;s Flash Player. Get the latest Flash player. Former Palestinian Prisoner Teaches Hebrew i ▶ ▶ || 0:00:00 ... ⇱   270p / 4.0MB 360p / 7.0MB 486p / 67.0MB   🔇 ▶ ▶ X April 09, 2014 The protracted Middle East peace process is in danger of stalling yet again, as Israel reneged on the planned release of another batch of Palestinian prisoners and the Palestinians renewed their bid to gain United Nations recognition of a Palestinian state. One former Palestinian prisoner may have found a better path to peace. After spending more than 20 years in an Israeli prison, he now teaches Hebrew to Palestinian children in the West Bank. Zlatica Hoke reports. Video  Former Palestinian Prisoner Teaches Hebrew The protracted Middle East peace process is in danger of stalling yet again, as Israel reneged on the planned release of another batch of Palestinian prisoners and the Palestinians renewed their bid to gain United Nations recognition of a Palestinian state. One former Palestinian prisoner may have found a better path to peace. After spending more than 20 years in an Israeli prison, he now teaches Hebrew to Palestinian children in the West Bank. Zlatica Hoke reports. Comment (0) Video  Artists with Disabilities Enter Mainstream Through Art Very often people with developmental disabilities are better able to express themselves in images than in words. That’s one of the reasons an art studio in Washington DC has designed a program to help artists with disabilities express and support themselves in a number of creative ways. VOA reporter Julie Taboh reports. Comment (0) Video  20 Years After Genocide, Rwanda Prospers But Political Freedom Remains Elusive Rwanda is a country on the move, having rebuilt from the genocide of 1994 that divided the nation and left an estimated 800,000 people dead. But as VOA&apos;s Gabe Joselow reports, some say the country&apos;s recovery has come at the cost of political freedom. Comment (1) Video  High Frequency Traders Under Scrutiny The U. S. Justice Department is investigating the relationship between high frequency trading firms and major exchanges -- and regulators in Washington and the state of New York are taking aim at them as well. At issue is the integrity of the worldwide marketplace and the appropriate use of advanced technology. VOA’s Bernard Shusman reports from Wall Street in New York City. Comment (1) Video  US Non-Confrontational Approach in Venezuela Means Less Media Coverage Outside of Latin America the anti-government street protests in Venezuela have been receiving relatively little news coverage, especially when compared to the crisis in Ukraine. Even though the South American nation is a major oil producer and its deteriorating economic and political stability could affect the world, restrictions on the press and a seeming lack of engagement by U.S. officials are keeping Venezuela out of the headlines. VOA&apos;s Brian Padden reports from Washington. Comment (0) Video  Russia and West in Chess Match Over Ukraine Following Russia&apos;s annexation of Crimea, the West is trying to work out what the Kremlin&apos;s next move will be. Both the United States and Britain have expressed concern about Russia&apos;s troop buildup on the Ukrainian border. VOA&apos;s Mary Motta looks at President Vladimir Putin&apos;s strategy in what has become an increasingly tense geopolitical chess game between East and West. Comment (0) Video  Robots Getting Ready for Dull, Dirty and Dangerous Jobs Robotic house helpers may still be a long way off but robots that can replace humans in hazardous environments are closer and closer to becoming a reality. Roboticists at Carnegie Mellon University are designing advanced robots for dull, dirty and dangerous jobs. VOA’s George Putic reports. Comment (1) Video  Remote South Africa Village Gets Electricity for First Time -- in 2014 South Africa is the African continent&apos;s most advanced nation -- yet an estimated 3 million of its residents live without electricity. The government says it&apos;s working to improve its infrastructure to reach those people -- many of them in remote areas -- but it is simultaneously struggling to provide enough power for its growing urban population. In a remote South African village, electricity is available for the first time in 2014. Anita Powell reports. Comment (0) More Asia News  Afghan Presidential Hopeful Urges Transparent Vote Count  After Indonesia&apos;s Surprise Election, Top Party Hunts for Friends Chinese Premier Calls for More Cooperation, Free Trade  Taiwan Students End Parliament Sit-in China: Reforms, Not ‘Forceful Stimulus,’ Will Boost Economy Indonesia Stocks Drop Following Initial Election Tallies Ministers: Big Gaps Remain Between US, Japan in Trade Talks  US, Mongolia Bolster Military Ties During Hagel Visit  Indians Vote in Key Election  Ping Detection Narrows Search for MH370 More Articles Blogs Science World Researchers Discover How to Speed Metabolism 22 hours ago Excessive Gamma Rays at Milky Way’s Center Hint at Dark Matter 5 days ago Flies Credited with Giving Zebras Their Stripes 7 days ago The Student Union Why Is It Hard To Make Western Friends?  Funding Your U.S. Study  The Personal Perks of Studying Abroad  Most Viewed  Malaysia Jet Search Area Narrows Malaysia Jet Search Chief Optimistic Plane Will Be Found  Diplomat: US Expectations Low for Talks with Russia on Ukraine  Ping Detection Narrows Search for MH370 Suspected Black Box Signals Reacquired in MH370 Search Most Emailed  US Navy Develops Fuel from Seawater WHO Issues Guidelines for Hepatitis C Treatment Stakeholders Question Involvement of Zimbabwe in Malawi Elections Obama Pushes for Equal Pay for Women Most Discussed Kerry Says &apos;Russian Agents&apos; Behind Crisis in Eastern Ukraine (24) US Warns Russia Against Instigating Separatist Tensions in Ukraine (19) Ukraine Crisis Seen As Wake-up Call for NATO (9) Diplomat: US Expectations Low for Talks with Russia on Ukraine (9) US Sanctions Don&apos;t Worry South Sudan Government, Rebels (8) Services: Podcast RSS Mail Subscription Mobile VOANews.com USA Africa Asia Mideast Europe Americas Science &amp; Technology Health Arts &amp; Entertainment Business &amp; Economy Blogs Video Editorials About VOA Media Relations Contact Us Job Opportunities Terms of Use/Privacy Policy Our Languages Usage Requests Our Partners RFE/RL Radio Free Asia MBN Radio Marti Our Broadcasts Frequencies and Schedules Pronunciation Guide Broadcast Programs
News Shows In Depth Opinion Human Rights Video Blogs Sport Investigations Weather Watch Live Africa Americas Asia-Pacific Central &amp; South Asia Europe Middle East Inside Story Witness Listening Post People &amp; Power 101 East The Stream More Focus Features In Pictures Interactive Spotlight Football Cricket Tennis Formula One Golf US Sports Features More           Counting the Cost News   This month on Al Jazeera Features One hundred days since Typhoon Haiyan Parts of the Philippines affected by the storm remain a long way from recovery, and aid is drying up. Kim Nguyen Last updated: 18 Feb 2014 11:07 Two members of Girlie and Berna-Mae&apos;s family were killed in Typhoon Haiyan [Kim Nguyen/Al Jazeera] Tacloban, Philippines - One hundred days have passed since Typhoon Haiyan swept away Girlie Misa&apos;s home, along with her husband and five-year-old son. Her father has just finished rebuilding her house, one room of plywood and corrugated iron, on the concrete and tiles left when the storm surge receded. She knows it&apos;s dangerous to live in this part of Tacloban, only separated from the sea by a low concrete wall. But Girlie and her two daughters, 15-year-old Bhona-Marie and 12-year-old Berna-Mae, have nowhere else to go.  The speed of recovery in many typhoon-ravaged areas has been impressive. In the past few weeks businesses in Tacloban, the city at the epicentre of the typhoon&apos;s destruction, have begun re-opening in large numbers. Restaurants, hotels, shops and markets are re-appearing throughout the city. In some areas it is hard to imagine that not long ago, the streets were littered with bodies and debris. But for the poorest, the challenges of surviving Haiyan continue. Government inaction and alleged corruption, lack of effective funding from international donors and a collective failure to address climate change have left many dangerously exposed. Hundreds of thousands of people on the island of Leyte still live in areas vulnerable to storm surges, and there is no viable plan to protect them. Many lost their livelihoods to the typhoon, and very few know when and where they can move. &quot;Relocation is the only thing we are asking for,&quot; said Girlie. Typhoon-hit Philippine farmers seek help &apos;No-build zone&apos; Shortly after Haiyan hit, the Aquino administration announced a &quot;no-build zone&quot;, banning construction within 40 metres of the sea shore. This was meant as a safety measure, but in practice the law would mean the mass migration of tens of millions of Filipinos across the country, many whom make their living from the sea. The government has no plan for where they would go and what they would do. The law has yet to be enforced, and many are sceptical it is even possible to implement it. With land scarce, Girlie and her daughters have been forced to return to the site of their old home, despite their fears another typhoon could destroy it yet again. The UN estimates that more than 4 million people remain homeless due to Haiyan, with more than 100,000 still in evacuation centres. Conditions are often poor, with overcrowding, limited sanitation and reports of crime and abuse. Many makeshift evacuation centres, such as schools and universities, are now pushing out the occupants. A few families have already transferred to newly erected bunkhouses, the government&apos;s temporary solution to the homelessness crisis. But according to the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), the bunkhouses have been poorly built, rendering them unsafe. Some have been constructed on private land only available until June. Even if all the bunkhouses were completed immediately and met minimum standards, the IOM states there would not be enough for all those who need them.  The mayor of Tacloban, Alfred Romualdez, says the solution is ultimately a new permanent housing development north of the city. But that area is also problematic - too small to fit all the displaced people, far from work opportunities and prone to flooding. It is unknown when these homes would be ready, as the land is still being cleared and construction is yet to begin. The result is that those like Girlie who live in the &quot;no build zone&quot; consider themselves &quot;temporary permanent&quot; settlers, likely to remain in housing limbo indefinitely.  Funds misused? Meanwhile, questions have been raised about the misuse of funds meant for disaster management. Mayor Romualdez and President Aquino, members of the two most powerful opposing political families in the country, have traded accusations of ineptitude and inaction. Salvador Estudillo, who headed Tacloban&apos;s Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office during and after Haiyan, recently resigned. He cited pressure from the mayor to sign documents on the spending of Tacloban&apos;s &quot;Calamity Fund&quot;, a percentage of the city&apos;s budget set aside to cover disaster preparation and relief, despite not knowing where the money had gone. Romualdez has denied wrongdoing, arguing that the 2013 Calamity Fund was correctly accounted for.  Evidence of abuse of power is not hard to find. Local city and provincial officials freely admit buying votes, describing it as a necessity of Filipino politics. In January, city councillors received large personal checks from the Philippine Councillors&apos; League, while their constituents protested outside about the lack of promised financial support from the government. Tacloban&apos;s local government is facing an especially difficult 2014. Its budget has been cut almost by half as post-typhoon tax revenues have fallen drastically. Spending on vital services including disaster recovery and preparedness have been reduced, with Mayor Romualdez calling for increased support from the national government.  Children struggle to cope after Haiyan And humanitarian organisations are facing a massive gap in funding, according to the UN Office of Coordination and Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). OCHA, along with UN and international NGO agencies, developed a Typhoon Haiyan Strategic Response Plan last year, requiring $788m to cover the essential needs of the affected communities. But so far less than 50 percent has been received, with early recovery and livelihood projects only 18.5 percent funded. Because donors choose where their money is spent rather than the coordinating body, more than $306m of the total $661m donated after Haiyan has been directed to projects outside the Response Plan.  Funding running out One of the most successful projects run by international organisations has been &quot;cash-for-work&quot;, in which Haiyan survivors are paid to clean up typhoon debris. But the clean-up is nearly complete and funding has almost run out. Now, many families are worried they won&apos;t be able to feed themselves. Irvin Tanyala, chairman of the Magallanes community where Girlie lives, said that without jobs, community members will be forced into crime.  Girlie used her husband&apos;s last pay check to buy items that Berna-Mae helps sell from their one window. With that small income and relief food packages they have been able to survive, but Girlie isn&apos;t sure how she&apos;ll feed her family once relief distribution stops in March. She tries to earn extra money at a newly re-opened appliance store, but business is slow and she only gets paid on commission. She says the announcement by USAID, Coca-Cola and Proctor &amp; Gamble to facilitate micro-financing loans doesn&apos;t interest her as she wouldn&apos;t be able to pay off the debt.  Girlie says it&apos;s hard for her and her daughters to stay in the area, her husband died just metres away trying to save their son. Her husband&apos;s body was located three weeks later but her son&apos;s has never been found. Girlie tries to hold back tears, saying she must be strong for the sake of her two daughters, but admits she feels weak inside. She just hopes she is able to help them finish school and make a better life for themselves. 1281 Source: Al Jazeera Topics in this article People Girlie Misa Alfred Romualdez Salvador Estudillo Bhona-Marie Aquino Irvin Tanyala Berna-Mae Country Philippines City Tacloban Organisation International Organisation for Migration Humanitarian Affairs Calamity Fund United Nations United States Agency for International Development Aquino administration Tacloban&apos;s Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office Philippine Councillors&apos; League national government UN office of Coordination and Humanitarian Affairs UN office of Coordination Featured on Al Jazeera Surviving the post-employment economy The author argues that in the new economy, it&apos;s people, not skills or majors, that have lost value. On the record: Journalism is not a crime Colleagues of detained Al Jazeera journalists press demands for their release, 100 days after their arrest in Egypt. Will the internet set us free? Mehdi Hasan discusses online freedoms and the potential of the web with Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales. Infographic: How India forms a government A tight race seems likely as 814 million voters elect leaders in world&apos;s largest democracy next week. Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in accordance with Community Rules &amp; Guidelines and Terms and Conditions. Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. Top News Accordion Top News UN approves peacekeepers for CAR India votes in third phase of elections Trial of Al Jazeera staff adjourned in Cairo Pro-Russian separatists reject Kiev&apos;s amnesty Bomb explodes outside Greece&apos;s central bank News Features Shark fin soup sales plunge in China UK uses health workers in counter-terror plan Polls offer little hope for India&apos;s Muslims US and Russia take high road in outer space Egypt&apos;s Twitter hashtags declare defiance What&apos;s Hot What&apos;s Hot Viewed Discussed 7 Days Flight MH370 search continues in signal zone NATO mulls US troops in eastern Europe UN approves peacekeepers for CAR Surviving the post-employment economy On the Front Lines with the Taliban Pro-Russian separatists reject Kiev&apos;s amnesty Kagame Ethiopia: Where conscience is constantly on trial UK uses health workers in counter-terror plan Battling perceptions: Minorities in the Arab world {Title} Israel warns Palestine of unilateral action Palestinians ready to widen recognition bid Israel cancels Palestinian prisoner release Palestinians must abandon the &apos;peace process&apos; Arab League pledges $100m to Palestinians Ukraine raids pro-Russian separatists Kerry says Russia stirs &apos;chaos&apos; in Ukraine Kerry weighs options on Middle East talks Dutch priest shot dead in Syria&apos;s Homs Israel limits contact with Palestinians Surviving the post-employment economy Israel warns Palestine of unilateral action Infographic: How India forms a government In Pictures: Crackdown in Brazil&apos;s favelas Chinese detect &apos;pulse signal&apos; in Indian Ocean Nigeria becomes Africa&apos;s largest economy Ukraine raids pro-Russian separatists The mystery of CNN 2014 Ukraine fears &apos;Crimea scenario&apos; in east Soldier shoots several dead at US army base {Title} Featured Shark fin soup Austerity, ecological awareness and fishy safety record among the reasons for the delicacy&apos;s decline. Egypt twitter Laws against protests have led youth activists in Egypt to again embrace the social media tools of the 2011 revolution. Syria elections Despite widespread death, destruction and displacement, Assad government will hold presidential polls by July. US prisons: More mentally ill than state hospitals Report slams lack of treatment for seriously ill inmates as &apos;inhumane&apos; Gaza statue A precious statue vanished after its discovery in Gaza last summer and many suspect it is now a hostage to politics Opinion Battling perceptions: Minorities in the Arab world Rachel Shabi Indonesia elections: Infusing democracy Zarina Banu Eastern Mediterranean gas: A new diplomatic opportunity? Ayla Gurel Ethiopia: Where conscience is constantly on trial Awol K Allo How to stabilise Yemen Alastair Sloan Ukraine and the separatist manifestos Olesia Oleshko Why &apos;Jewish state&apos; demand is a non-starter Yousef Munayyer Hungary elections: How the media failed the people Amy Brouillette Will the violence in Iraq ever ebb? Joseph A Kechichian Ukraine and the &apos;parade of sovereignties&apos; Alexander Nekrassov join our mailing list Email Address Close Al Jazeera Watch Live Video Podcasts RSS Mobile Follow on Twitter News Africa Americas Asia-Pacific Central &amp; South Asia Europe Middle East Sport In Depth Opinion Features Spotlight In Pictures Blogs Interactive Shows The Stream Witness Inside Story Inside Story Americas Listening Post People &amp; Power Fault Lines Artscape The Frost Interview 101 East Counting The Cost Talk to Al Jazeera Empire The Cafe Al Jazeera World South2North Inside Syria Watch Live On Demand Podcasts Mobile Broadcast Schedule Weather Hotel/Partners Search More About Us Licensing footage Press Office Work for us Al Jazeera America Al Jazeera Turk AJ Center for Studies AJ Balkans Investigations Community Rules Terms &amp; Conditions
