Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Main Content Sign In/Sign Up Cart: 0 ($0.00) Español Fredericksburg, VA (22401) What We Do Red Cross Stories News &amp; Events Find Your Local Red Cross Shop Donate Funds Donate Blood Take A Class Ways to Help Get Assistance Global Red Cross Response Effort Underway in Wake of Typhoon Volunteers and staff working with food items at Philippine Red Cross HQ. Photo: Jarkko Mikkonen/Finnish Red Cross When responding overseas, the American Red Cross works closely with the affected Red Cross society to provide the level of staff support and assistance requested. Posted March 05, 2014 , Updated article Nearly four months on, the global Red Cross network continues to help families rebuild and rebound from Typhoon Haiyan—a storm that tore through the Philippines with record strength winds and high storm surges. Approximately 16 million people across 40 provinces were affected by Typhoon Haiyan and more than 1 million homes damaged or destroyed. Red Cross volunteers have been caring for people even before Typhoon Haiyan made landfall. Prior to the arrival of the storm, the Philippine Red Cross worked closely with local disaster authorities to support preemptive evacuations, helping move more than 125,000 families to safer shelters. The Philippine Red Cross also disseminated early warning messages and safety tips in areas along the path of the typhoon. When the storm made landfall, the global Red Cross network assisted survivors by delivering food, mosquito nets, medical care and other vital assistance to people in need. Despite blocked roads, destroyed infrastructure, and downed communication lines, the Red Cross was able to get water to more than 710,000 people in the first month and provided vital medical care—delivering 100 babies at a field hospital in Ormoc in its first 10 days. AMERICAN RED CROSS RESPONSE EFFORTS The American Red Cross has played a major role in helping support the global response by lending people, expertise and equipment to the massive effort. The American Red Cross has spent or committed $28 million and deployed 43 disaster specialists to the Philippines, thus far. Its disaster specialists have provided a wide range of support for sheltering activities and relief distribution, as well as technical expertise in mapping, telecommunications and information technology. With financial and technical support from the American Red Cross, the global Red Cross network has distributed cash grants to more than 57,000 families affected by the typhoon. These grants are empowering families to make their own decisions about how to rebuild. “Cash gives people the ability to decide what’s important to them and their family,” said Tracy Reines, head of the American Red Cross’s International Response Operations Center. “It’s efficient. It’s fast. And it’s dignified.” In past disasters, people have used cash to purchase items to meet pressing needs like seeds, school uniforms, bicycle parts and mattresses. The Red Cross has provided cash during previous emergencies, but this is the largest and most ambitious cash transfer effort yet. Houses, crops, the water supply and people’s livelihoods remain damaged, or in many cases, completely destroyed. For example, coconuts trees—a major cash crop in the local economy— were broken in half, meaning years of lost income or farmers. The global Red Cross network will remain active as people overcome these challenges and work to rebuild their lives. 7 Ways the Red Cross is Helpinig People after Typhoon Haiyan Tags: Philippines, Haiyan, Typhoon. About the American Red Cross: The American Red Cross shelters, feeds and provides emotional support to victims of disasters; supplies about 40 percent of the nation&apos;s blood; teaches skills that save lives; provides international humanitarian aid; and supports military members and their families. The Red Cross is a not-for-profit organization that depends on volunteers and the generosity of the American public to perform its mission. For more information, please visit redcross.org or visit us on Twitter at @RedCross. Related Disaster Specialists Spend the Holiday Season in the Philippines December 24, 2013 - Q &amp; A: Mapping the Effects of Typhoon Haiyan January 21, 2014 - See how you can help. Everyone can make a difference. Get Involved Give Blood Help change a life by donating blood or hosting a blood drive. Share a Story Join others who have given and received help. Flood App Get your family and home ready for a flood. The American Red Cross Flood app is the complete solution you need to understand and prepare for flooding and all that comes with it. Get the Flood App Swim App Help your child become a confident swimmer. The American Red Cross Swim app puts the 100 year old Learn to Swim program in the palm of your hand. Brush up on your water safety knowledge, play parent child games together and track your child’s progress in the class. Get the Swim App Pet First Aid App Take care of your furry family member. The American Red Cross Pet First Aid app puts veterinary advice for everyday emergencies in the palm of your hand. Get the app and be prepared to act when called upon. With videos, interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice it’s never been easier to know Pet First Aid. Get the Pet First Aid App Team Red Cross: Volunteer App Team Red Cross wants you! Join Team Red Cross to help provide the care and comfort needed to communities when the unthinkable occurs. Team Red Cross wants people with various backgrounds, talents, and skill levels. Everyone has something special to offer...including you. Make a difference and join Team Red Cross! Get the Volunteer App Wildfire App Be ready for wildfires with the Wildfire App by the American Red Cross. Get the latest state-by-state wildfire news and updates, prepare your family, home and pets, let loved ones know that you are safe even if the power is out – a must have for anyone who lives in an area that is susceptible to wildfires or has loved ones that do. Get the Wildfire App Tornado App Get your family and home ready for a tornado with the official Tornado App from the American Red Cross. The Tornado app puts everything you need to know prepare for a tornado – and all that comes with it – in the palm of your hand. With interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice it’s never been easier to be ready. Get the Tornado App First Aid App The official American Red Cross First Aid app puts expert advice for everyday emergencies in your hand. Available for iPhone and Android devices, the official American Red Cross First Aid app offers videos, interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice it’s never been easier to know first aid. Get the First Aid App Hurricane App Monitor conditions in your area or throughout the storm track, prepare your family and home, find help and let others know you are safe even if the power is out – a must have for anyone who lives in an area where a hurricane may strike or has loved ones who do. Get the Hurricane App Shelter Finder App The Red Cross Shelter Finder is available in the iTunes store and works on iOS devices. The Shelter Finder displays open Red Cross shelters and their current population on an easy to use map interface. Get the Shelter Finder App Earthquake App Be ready for an earthquake with Earthquake by American Red Cross. Get notified when an earthquake occurs, prepare your family and home, find help and let others know you are safe even if the power is out – a must have for anyone who lives in an earthquake-prone area or has loved ones who do. Get the Earthquake App Contact Us Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube Who We Are Mission, Vision, and Fundamental Principles Our History Governance Publications Career Opportunities Media Resources What We Do Disaster Relief Supporting America&apos;s Military Families Health and Safety Training &amp; Education Lifesaving Blood International Services Plan &amp; Prepare Prepare Your Home and Family Prepare Your School Prepare Your Workplace Types of Emergency Tools and Resources Our Supporters Corporate and Foundation Community Partners Individual Major Donors National Celebrity Cabinet Volunteer Involve Your School Host a Blood Drive Workplace Giving Fundraise © Copyright 2014 The American Red Cross Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Connect With Us FAQ Contact Us
