Turn autoplay off Turn autoplay on Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off Jump to content [s] Jump to comments [c] Jump to site navigation [0] Jump to search [4] Terms and conditions [8] Edition: UK US AU Your activity Email subscriptions Account details Linked services Sign out Profile Beta About us About us Contact us Press office Terms of service Privacy policy Subscribe Guardian iPhone iPad edition Kindle Guardian Weekly Digital edition News US World Sports Comment Culture Business Money Environment Science Travel Tech Media Life &amp; style Data News Global development Life after typhoon Haiyan: Cebu&apos;s struggle to rebuild lives and homes Across the Philippines&apos; second-largest city and the province&apos;s islands, inhabitants try to buy materials for basic housing Share Tweet this Email Mark Tran in Cebu theguardian.com, Tuesday 4 February 2014 20.00 EST Jump to comments (…) Ginevey Caso in Cebu, Philippines. Photograph: Mark Tran for the Guardian Ginevey Caso recounts her memories of typhoon Haiyan, which destroyed her simple wooden home three months ago, with almost casual cheerfulness. &quot;My house fell down and there is no more house. Now I am staying in the lower part of the village under a tarpaulin,&quot; she says as two of her children play nearby. Caso is separated from her husband and has to support her children, three boys and a girl. Her youngest is seven months and her eldest is 10; both are boys. She lives in Magnlotang barangay, or village, which is a two-hour drive from Cebu, the Philippines&apos; second-largest city, along a scenic coastal road that hugs the shore before climbing into green-clad hills lined with coconut trees and sugar cane. The sea is flat as a mirror, and it is hard to imagine the brute force of a superstorm on a sunny day like this. Although the island of Cebu was not as badly hit as Leyte and its capital, Tacloban, to the east, it still took a battering, especially in the north. Villagers describe hearing winds resembling a ship&apos;s engine or a helicopter for about two and a half hours. Northern Cebu is littered with damaged buildings, with roofs bent out of shape or missing altogether. Many coconut trees have fallen and the few that remain have fronds twisted into a giant knot at the top of the trunk. People in Cebu are still picking up the pieces from typhoon Haiyan, literally in many cases. Caso, along with about 50 others, is taking two-hour classes on child nutrition and disaster-risk reduction, held in the village school in the morning. The women sit with their infants inside a white Unicef tent, their colourful flip-flops piled high outside. They are encouraged to breastfeed for the first year, then gradually add nutritious vegetables such as squash or moringa leaves to congee, a ubiquitous soupy rice. The classes, organised by the charity World Vision, were designed to stave off malnutrition after the devastation caused by Haiyan, or Yolanda, as the typhoon is known in the Philippines. As Caso talks about how she is trying to save money, her smile suddenly gives way to a trickle of tears. &quot;I am working, giving pedicures and manicures and [as] I save, I buy a little more,&quot; she says. &quot;I need to buy GI sheets [corrugated iron sheets], wood for walls and cement for flooring. But there are not too many customers [for her manicures and pedicures].&quot; She is looking to build a 10-12 sq metre house, which is considerably smaller than the standard 19 sq metre, she adds, as her daughter, Samantha Pearl, plays with a Barbie doll, and James Andrew, one of her boys, with a teddy bear. Residents rush to safety past a fallen tree during strong winds brought by typhoon Haiyan, in Cebu, Philippines. Photograph: Reuters Not far from where Caso lives is another school that was badly damaged. A building at the entrance had to be demolished because it was unsafe. White smoke drifts from waste being burned on the cement floor, which is all that is left of the building. At the back, a green corrugated iron roof is buckled and plaster sticks out from underneath, but classes continue. Romano Sarsalejo is the diminutive but indomitable headteacher, resplendent in a pink jacket. &quot;I climbed to the top of the hill – it was very difficult because of the fallen trees – and waited two and a half hours to get a one-bar signal on my mobile phone to call the Cebu city education department,&quot; she explains. &quot;I told them: &apos;How I can hold classes&apos; in this situation. It was 14 November. They came the following day.&quot; In one particularly badly hit barangay, Mahawak, 653 of 732 homes were destroyed by the typhoon. Virginia Samsung, who has found shelter in a makeshift wooden shack near a fallen tree, says: &quot;I was warned of the storm by my daughter and we evacuated temporarily to the city on the Thursday. We came back on Sunday to find almost all the homes destroyed.&quot; Samsung, along with others whose homes were demolished, has been receiving unconditional cash transfers – money with no strings attached. For December and January, about 10,000 families – approximately 50,000 people – received $60 (£40) each month. The scheme in north Cebu was funded by the UN&apos;s World Food Programme and implemented by World Vision using smartphone-like devices to read bar codes on bank cards given to beneficiaries. &quot;Two weeks after the typhoon, the markets were working again, supplies were available, so we decided to use cash transfers. If the markets were not working, then maybe we would have distributed food,&quot; says Filomena Portales, a director at World Vision Philippines. The cash is supposed to be mainly for food, but Samsung says she has spent most of the money on building materials, which does not seem to overly concern World Vision. This approach is typical of the flexibility of unconditional cash transfers, which are being used increasingly in emergencies. Samsung is stoical about the money drying up. &quot;Well, that&apos;s the end of it. We&apos;re very thankful but now we&apos;ll have to look for other options,&quot; she says. Helen Compoesto, the Mahawak village secretary, is worried about the state of the land and its crops. &quot;There is nothing to harvest; all our banana plants have been destroyed. What will we do?&quot; she says. As for Caso, even though times are tough, with fewer customers booking beauty treatments, for the time being she is resisting asking others, including her mother, for help. &quot;I want to stand on my own two feet,&quot; she says. Sign up for the Guardian Today Our editors&apos; picks for the day&apos;s top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning. Sign up for the daily email Print this Share Contact us Send to a friend Sender&apos;s name Recipient&apos;s email address Your IP address will be logged Share Short link for this page: http://gu.com/p/3met8 StumbleUpon reddit Tumblr Digg LinkedIn del.icio.us Facebook Twitter Contact us Report errors or inaccuracies: userhelp@theguardian.com Letters for publication should be sent to: letters@theguardian.com If you need help using the site: userhelp@theguardian.com Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000 Advertising guide License/buy our content Article history About this article Life after typhoon Haiyan: Cebu&apos;s struggle to rebuild lives and homes This article was published on the Guardian website at 20.00 EST on Tuesday 4 February 2014. It was last modified at 08.24 EDT on Monday 24 March 2014. Global development Cities and development World news Typhoon Haiyan · Philippines · Asia Pacific · Natural disasters and extreme weather Cities More news More features More on this story Typhoon Haiyan: UK response praised by aid watchdog Swift reaction by Department for International Development mobilised wider donor support for Philippines, says Icai Typhoon Haiyan disaster response: how the relief effort worked Typhoon Haiyan sends coconut farming &apos;back to year zero&apos; Share Tweet this Email Don&apos;t show again Hide Comments Click here to join the discussion. We can&apos;t load the discussion on theguardian.com because you don&apos;t have JavaScript enabled. Today&apos;s best video We&apos;re Going on a Bear Hunt: &apos;The editors were so excited they were nearly weeping&apos; 25 years after its publication, author Michael Rosen and illustrator Helen Oxenbury discuss their children&apos;s classic James Lovelock: give up on saving the planet Gaia theorist previews exhibition at London&apos;s Science Museum The film to watch this week Peter Bradshaw recommends the Iranian film Willow and Wind Call of Duty and the explosive rise of pro gaming Meet the players, sponsors, coaches, parents and pundits GuardianWitness India elections What do you want from a new Indian government? Share your images, videos and experiences Marathons We&apos;d love to see your photos of your London marathon experience, from now to the finish line Vintage Africa: show us your style Vintage dress is having a renaissance across Africa. Share your photos Send us your assignment ideas Do you have an idea for an assignment you think should run on GuardianWitness? Let us know The Guardian&apos;s online dating site Bella2122, 29 icarus123, 31 I am a Woman Man Seeking Women Men Men &amp; Women Aged 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 to 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 In Rather not say Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Occupied Territories Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Saint-Barthelemy Saint-Martin Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea Spain Spratly Islands Sri Lanka St Helena Ascension and Tristan da Cunha St. Lucia Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Bahamas The Gambia Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu US Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Within 5 miles 10 miles 20 miles 40 miles 60 miles 100 miles 200 miles 300 miles Of Search On Global development Most viewed Latest Last 24 hours 1.  Colombian democracy took a backward leap with ousting of Bogotá mayor 2. Why does Lebanese bill on domestic violence fail to tackle marital rape? 3. El Salvador groups accuse Pacific Rim of &apos;assault on democratic governance&apos; 4. Disability must be a priority within development programmes, say MPs 5. Slavery experts meet big business to tackle exploitation More most viewed Last 24 hours 1.  El Salvador groups accuse Pacific Rim of &apos;assault on democratic governance&apos; 2. Disability must be a priority within development programmes, say MPs 3. Humanitarian news agency faces closure as UN funding comes to an end 4. Colombian democracy took a backward leap with ousting of Bogotá mayor 5. Why does Lebanese bill on domestic violence fail to tackle marital rape? All today&apos;s stories Follow NSA-related developments as controversy over leaks continues to make headlines Sponsored feature Today in pictures BBC Sports Personality of the Year – in pictures Bradley Wiggins capped his remarkable sporting year by taking home the big prize at the ceremony in London Dinner, dusk and dancing Russians: my best winter shot A glass of wine with a rough sleeper, Santa in trunks, a thousand partying Muscovites … in a My Best Shot special, top photographers pick the image that sums up winter for them Monkey adopts kitten – in pictures Kimon, an eight-year-old pet female long-tailed monkey, treats a kitten as her baby in Bintan Island, Indonesia Hot topics Modern-day slavery Indigenous communities Women&apos;s rights and gender equality Road safety Geography game License/buy our content | Privacy policy | Terms of service | US advertising | A - Z index | About us © 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. Share Tweet this ;
SET EDITION:  U.S. INTERNATIONAL MÉXICO ARABIC TV:   CNN CNNi CNN en Español HLN Sign up Log in Home TV &amp; Video CNN Trends U.S. World Politics Justice Entertainment Tech Health Living Travel Opinion iReport Money Sports SHARE THIS Print Email More sharing Reddit StumbleUpon Delicious Prince Charles arranges mass vaccination for Typhoon Haiyan victims By Max Foster, CNN updated 8:22 AM EDT, Wed March 26, 2014 A child receives a measles vaccine in Manila, Philippines on January 21, 2014 following an upsurge in the virus. STORY HIGHLIGHTS Measles hit the Philippines in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan Prince Charles arranges for delivery of five million doses of measles, rubella vaccines The hope is that the vaccines will potentially save 5,000 lives London (CNN) -- Five million doses of measles and rubella vaccine will be delivered to the Philippines, following a donation organized by Britain&apos;s Prince Charles. The virus has ravaged the country since Typhoon Haiyan -- known as Yolanda in the Philippines -- hit on November 8 last year, leaving more than 6,000 dead and nearly 1,800 unaccounted for. According to the Filipino Department of Health, 15,600 cases of measles were reported during the first 10 weeks of 2014, compared to just 5,863 cases during the whole of 2013. The spread of the virus has been exacerbated by mass migration, with nearly four million people displaced by the devastating typhoon, according to the country&apos;s National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council. The immunization program will be mainly targeted at children aged from nine months to five year olds who are at most risk from the epidemic: the hope is that the plan will potentially save 5,000 lives. 5 things to know about measles Prince Charles was in India at the time when Haiyan hit the Philippines. He visited the Serum Institute in Pune, the world&apos;s largest manufacturer of measles vaccines, two days after the typhoon made landfall. It agreed to donate five million doses to the Philippines, to be delivered via International Health Partners (IHP), one of the Prince&apos;s charities. A Clarence House spokesperson said: &quot;The Prince of Wales was very moved when he heard about the devastation caused by Typhoon Yolanda in the Philippines, which developed during his visit to India in November 2013. &quot;After being informed of the offer of a donation by the Serum Institute of India to a cause of his choosing, The Prince was pleased to charge his charities, International Health Partners and the British Asian Trust, to ensure the donation would be part of the ongoing international response to Typhoon Yolanda. &quot;The Prince was delighted that the Serum Institute was able to make such a generous donation to this important and urgent cause, and he was very pleased that the institute and the two charities have been able to work so effectively with the Philippines Department of Health, the World Health Organization and UNICEF to bring about this agreement.&quot; Anthony Dunnett, president of IHP said: &quot;The pressing need to deliver a measles vaccination program in the Philippines demonstrates the ongoing impact of Typhoon Yolanda... We are extremely grateful to our patron, His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, for enabling this important donation.&quot; On Wednesday, IHP signed an agreement with the Philippine government to deliver the vaccines as part of a wider immunization program in September of this year. READ: The most infectious of all infectious diseases 0 Comments » SHARE THIS Print Email More sharing Reddit StumbleUpon Delicious Part of complete coverage on CNN Recommends How deep could the wreckage be? updated 11:35 AM EDT, Wed April 9, 2014 Indra Petersons analyzes how deep the Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 wreckage could be. Pistorius at the mercy of a &apos;bull dog&apos;? updated 11:51 AM EDT, Thu April 10, 2014 Prosecutor Gerrie Nel is known as the &quot;bull dog&quot; in South Africa&apos;s legal circles, and it&apos;s easy to see why. Refugee: &apos;It&apos;s a war on our soul&apos; updated 10:50 AM EDT, Thu April 10, 2014 Once a sleepy town, Arsal is now a makeshift home for refugees who feel like they have been treated like animals. Child bride disfigured for drugs updated 12:23 PM EDT, Thu April 10, 2014 A former child bride tells how her face was disfigured by a husband wanting drug money. A &apos;diamond ring&apos; in space updated 11:03 AM EDT, Wed April 9, 2014 Planetary nebula Abell 33 has taken on romantic proportions. Here&apos;s what astronomers found. The Prince, play date and a theft? updated 7:58 AM EDT, Thu April 10, 2014 Prince George had a play date with 10 babies in Wellington and the Prince was described as &quot;quite a bruiser.&quot; How to buy Chinese art updated 6:14 AM EDT, Thu April 10, 2014 With astronomical Chinese art prices making recent headlines it&apos;s hard not to wonder how one can elbow into the art market for a piece of the pie. Turning Crimea into &apos;Putinland&apos; updated 11:11 PM EDT, Tue April 8, 2014 Ukranian novelist Andrey Kurkov says war with Russia is on everyone&apos;s minds. India&apos;s new &apos;Womanifesto&apos; updated 7:02 AM EDT, Wed April 9, 2014 How central are women&apos;s rights to this year&apos;s elections? Many hope for real change. Indonesia&apos;s &apos;Obama&apos;? updated 9:08 PM EDT, Tue April 8, 2014 Meet the young, charismatic leader who could soon rule the country. Scenes from the field updated 10:09 AM EDT, Thu April 10, 2014 Browse through images you don&apos;t always see on news reports from CNN teams around the world. World&apos;s top 25 destinations updated 12:10 AM EDT, Tue April 8, 2014 You blinked and a quarter of the year flew by. It&apos;s time to plan a vacation. Home | Video | CNN Trends | U.S. | World | Politics | Justice | Entertainment | Tech | Health | Living | Travel | Opinion | iReport | Money | Sports Tools &amp; widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN mobile | My profile | E-mail alerts | Desktop Alerts | CNN shop | Site map | Contact us CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN México | CNN Chile | CNN Expansión العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts | © 2014 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Ad choices | Advertise with us | About us | Work for us | Help CNN Newsource | License Footage
Français | عربي | Mobile | About IRIN 10 April 2014 * * Advanced Search humanitarian news and analysis a service of the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs        - Select a country - Afghanistan Angola Bangladesh Benin Botswana Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Central African Republic (CAR) Chad Comoros Republic of Congo Cote d&apos;lvoire Djibouti Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) Egypt Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Ethiopia Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea-Bissau Haiti Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Jordan Kenya Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Niger Nigeria occ. Palestinian terr. Pakistan Papua New Guinea Philippines Rwanda Sao Tome and Principe Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Somalia South Africa South Sudan Sri Lanka Sudan Swaziland Syria Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Turkmenistan Uganda Uzbekistan Vietnam Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Sign up for email alerts | Login Home Analysis Global Issues Africa AFRICA HOME PAGE EAST AFRICA Kenya South Sudan Sudan Tanzania Uganda GREAT LAKES Burundi Central African Republic Congo DRC Rwanda HORN OF AFRICA Djibouti Eritrea Ethiopia Somalia SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Botswana Comoros Lesotho Madagascar Malawi Mauritius Mozambique Namibia Seychelles South Africa Swaziland Zambia Zimbabwe WEST AFRICA Benin Burkina Faso Cameroon Cape Verde Chad Cote d&apos;Ivoire Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea Equatorial Guinea Guinea-Bissau Liberia Mali Mauritania Niger Nigeria Sao Tome and Principe Senegal Sierra Leone Togo Western Sahara IRIN film series:Trouble in Timbuktu Africa RSS Feed Asia ASIA HOME PAGE Afghanistan Bangladesh Cambodia Indonesia Iran Kyrgyzstan Laos Myanmar Nepal Pakistan Papua New Guinea Philippines Sri Lanka Tajikistan Thailand Timor-Leste Turkmenistan Uzbekistan Vietnam Featured film:Kachin - Still on the run Asia RSS Feed Middle East MIDDLE EAST HOME PAGE Egypt Iraq Israel Jordan Lebanon Libya OPT Syria Yemen Featured film: Yemen – A scarred generation Middle East RSS Feed PlusNews Film Photo In-Depth Hear our Voices Weeklies Themes Aid Policy Children Conflict Disaster Risk Reduction Early Warning East Africa Food Crisis Economy Education Environment Flu Food Security Gender Issues Governance Health &amp; Nutrition HIV/AIDS Human Rights Migration Natural Disasters Refugees/IDPs Sahel Crisis Security Urban Risk Water &amp; Sanitation Your views are important to us. IRIN is currently reviewing its work and we need to understand your views and priorities. Click here to start the survey Read this article in: Français - عربي Philippine calamities in the shadow of Typhoon Haiyan Follow @{0} COMMENT EMAIL PRINT EASY READ SHARE Photo: Jason Gutierrez/IRIN It was only weeks after conflict erupted in Mindanao that an earthquake hit Bohol (file photo) MANILA, 28 January 2014 (IRIN) - In the wake of Typhoon Haiyan, the Philippine government is struggling to meet the needs of survivors in other areas of the archipelago that have experienced calamity as well as conflict. The Philippines went through back-to-back emergencies, starting with the  siege of Zamboanga City on the southern island of Mindanao by Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) rebels in September 2013. After barely recovering from a three-week standoff, a  7.2-magnitude earthquake hit the island of Bohol, some 360km to the north, in central Philippines on 15 October.  Finding home in Zamboanga “Shelter remains to be our biggest challenge,” said Wouter De Cuyper, a field officer for the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Zamboanga City, where more than 63,000 people were still displaced on 14 January. “Those who used to live in the areas most affected by the fighting, or whose houses were burned during the fighting, cannot go back to their homes yet,” said De Cuyper. An estimated 10,000  homes were destroyed by fire during the conflict. According to the Zamboanga City  Public Information Office (PIO), 834 families have been transferred to bunkhouses constructed by the local government and the International Organization for Migration (IOM), and there are plans to relocate more people so as to decongest the evacuation centres. “Temporary shelters have been constructed to accommodate 1,000 families. It is expected that by [the] first quarter of this year [2014], we will commence with the construction of on-site permanent shelter,” Maria Isabelle Climaco-Salazar, the mayor of Zamboanga, wrote to IRIN in a text message. But even identifying suitable sites - either transitional or permanent - to which displaced people could be transferred is problematic because of national policy on the non-establishment of coastal communities according to the Philippine Water Code’s article 51, which prohibits construction three metres from a coastline or riverbank in urban areas. The no-build zone is 20 metres in agricultural areas and 40 metres in forested ones. “We need to take into consideration that many of the IDPs [internally displaced persons] previously resided in houses on stilts in the coastal communities,” wrote Climaco-Salazar. “We estimate a 12-month timeframe wherein IDPs shall have returned to their places of origin, or [been] relocated to a place in proximity to their previous residences.” Under the Zamboanga Roadmap to Recovery and Rehabilitation Plan (Z3R), an estimated US$80 million will be needed to provide housing and infrastructure assistance. On 25 January, the government and the country’s largest Muslim group, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) announced progress toward a final peace deal to end decades of insurgency in the south. It is expected that this agreement, which will create an autonomous Muslim region with local powers, will be signed in the coming months. Quake in Bohol Shelter and relocation are also the biggest challenge on the central Philippine island of Bohol, where the October earthquake killed more than 200 people, displaced 300,000 others and destroyed more than 76,000 homes. A  report on 10 January 2014 showed that almost 600 families were still housed in evacuation centres, and many more were living in tents near their destroyed homes, or with extended family members. The national government’s Bohol Earthquake Action Plan says $46.8 million will be needed to address the needs of the more than 300,000 people affected by the calamity until April 2014. To qualify for assistance, families must have a total monthly income of less than $227. The national government has allocated $20.7 million for earthquake survivor housing assistance. So far, the national Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) has allocated emergency housing assistance of $227 to families with partially damaged homes, and “core” shelter assistance of $1,590 to those with totally damaged homes so they can start rebuilding more durable housing. Families must earn less than $227 monthly to qualify. But just as officials started identifying families most in need, a new catastrophe interrupted relief efforts. “Initial assessments of partially and totally damaged homes were started by the DSWD immediately after the earthquake. However, when [Typhoon Haiyan, locally called] Yolanda struck [elsewhere in the Central Philippines], DSWD personnel had to be reassigned to Yolanda areas,” said Liza Quirog, head of the government’s inter-agency coordinator for Bohol relief efforts. “We are finalizing the list of qualified beneficiaries today [27 January] so we can meet the target for the release of DSWD funds scheduled for this week,” Quirog said. Landslides and sinkholes Loisella Lucino, Bohol’s provincial director, noted that “There is also a problem of finding suitable settlement sites because areas have been declared as landslide-prone… [on] geo-hazard maps.” The  maps were prepared by the Mines and Geosciences Bureau of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (MGB-DENR), and classify defined areas as having low, moderate or high susceptibility to floods, flash floods and landslides. Quirog said six areas have been declared uninhabitable because they are prone to landslides or have sinkholes. Despite these challenges, the spokesman for the government’s Office of Civil Defence, Major Reynaldo Balido, assured IRIN that survivors’ needs will be met. “We will not forget the crises in Zamboanga and Bohol,” he said. “Budgets have been earmarked for the recovery of these two areas, and personnel from national government agencies have been assigned to oversee efforts.” as/pt/he Theme (s): Natural Disasters, [This report does not necessarily reflect the views of the United Nations] SHARE THIS STORY Discussion Guidelines Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. comments powered by Disqus LATEST REPORTS Scaling up accountability to communities Iraq fights back against polio Priced out of food in the CAR Hunger in Myanmar’s “dry zone” Lack of funds could freeze aid to Anbar Getting CAR back to school Filling Myanmar&apos;s Rakhine aid gap SHARE THIS STORY MORE REPORTS Prospects for peace in Mindanao Connectivity and emerging infectious diseases in Southeast Asia New displacements as Philippines nears final peace deal Philippines on watch for infectious disease outbreaks More aid for southern Philippine conflict zone MORE ON NATURAL DISASTERS Analysis: How effective is Pakistan’s disaster authority? Indonesia’s lagging volcano preparedness Jumble of needs complicate aid to Afghanistan’s displaced Indonesian eruption displaces people, buries crops Water brings change flowing in Pakistan’s Tharparkar Tweets about &quot;irinnews&quot; SLIDESHOW Philippines typhoon relief intensifies FILM Haiti’s Homeless Hotel IN-DEPTH Youth in crisis: Coming of age in the 21st century When disaster strikes: the response to the South Asian earthquake Between Two Stones - Nepal’s decade of conflict Our Bodies - Their Battle Ground: Gender-based Violence in Conflict Zones Bitter-Sweet Harvest: Afghanistan&apos;s New War World AIDS Day 2002 LATEST ANALYSIS Scaling up accountability to communities Iraq fights back against polio Myanmar peace and development scorecard NGO-NGO learning: what works? Managing Pakistan’s disasters MOST READ Kariba Dam collapse fears and disaster preparedness in Zimbabwe Asylum seekers left high and dry in Indonesia Fighting an invisible enemy in DRC Lack of funding threatens aid response in Iraq&apos;s Anbar Province Getting CAR back to school Read this article in: Français - عربي Philippine calamities in the shadow of Typhoon Haiyan Follow @{0} COMMENT EMAIL PRINT EASY READ SHARE Photo: Jason Gutierrez/IRIN It was only weeks after conflict erupted in Mindanao that an earthquake hit Bohol (file photo) MANILA, 28 January 2014 (IRIN) - In the wake of Typhoon Haiyan, the Philippine government is struggling to meet the needs of survivors in other areas of the archipelago that have experienced calamity as well as conflict. The Philippines went through back-to-back emergencies, starting with the  siege of Zamboanga City on the southern island of Mindanao by Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) rebels in September 2013. After barely recovering from a three-week standoff, a  7.2-magnitude earthquake hit the island of Bohol, some 360km to the north, in central Philippines on 15 October.  Finding home in Zamboanga “Shelter remains to be our biggest challenge,” said Wouter De Cuyper, a field officer for the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Zamboanga City, where more than 63,000 people were still displaced on 14 January. “Those who used to live in the areas most affected by the fighting, or whose houses were burned during the fighting, cannot go back to their homes yet,” said De Cuyper. An estimated 10,000  homes were destroyed by fire during the conflict. According to the Zamboanga City  Public Information Office (PIO), 834 families have been transferred to bunkhouses constructed by the local government and the International Organization for Migration (IOM), and there are plans to relocate more people so as to decongest the evacuation centres. “Temporary shelters have been constructed to accommodate 1,000 families. It is expected that by [the] first quarter of this year [2014], we will commence with the construction of on-site permanent shelter,” Maria Isabelle Climaco-Salazar, the mayor of Zamboanga, wrote to IRIN in a text message. But even identifying suitable sites - either transitional or permanent - to which displaced people could be transferred is problematic because of national policy on the non-establishment of coastal communities according to the Philippine Water Code’s article 51, which prohibits construction three metres from a coastline or riverbank in urban areas. The no-build zone is 20 metres in agricultural areas and 40 metres in forested ones. “We need to take into consideration that many of the IDPs [internally displaced persons] previously resided in houses on stilts in the coastal communities,” wrote Climaco-Salazar. “We estimate a 12-month timeframe wherein IDPs shall have returned to their places of origin, or [been] relocated to a place in proximity to their previous residences.” Under the Zamboanga Roadmap to Recovery and Rehabilitation Plan (Z3R), an estimated US$80 million will be needed to provide housing and infrastructure assistance. On 25 January, the government and the country’s largest Muslim group, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) announced progress toward a final peace deal to end decades of insurgency in the south. It is expected that this agreement, which will create an autonomous Muslim region with local powers, will be signed in the coming months. Quake in Bohol Shelter and relocation are also the biggest challenge on the central Philippine island of Bohol, where the October earthquake killed more than 200 people, displaced 300,000 others and destroyed more than 76,000 homes. A  report on 10 January 2014 showed that almost 600 families were still housed in evacuation centres, and many more were living in tents near their destroyed homes, or with extended family members. The national government’s Bohol Earthquake Action Plan says $46.8 million will be needed to address the needs of the more than 300,000 people affected by the calamity until April 2014. To qualify for assistance, families must have a total monthly income of less than $227. The national government has allocated $20.7 million for earthquake survivor housing assistance. So far, the national Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) has allocated emergency housing assistance of $227 to families with partially damaged homes, and “core” shelter assistance of $1,590 to those with totally damaged homes so they can start rebuilding more durable housing. Families must earn less than $227 monthly to qualify. But just as officials started identifying families most in need, a new catastrophe interrupted relief efforts. “Initial assessments of partially and totally damaged homes were started by the DSWD immediately after the earthquake. However, when [Typhoon Haiyan, locally called] Yolanda struck [elsewhere in the Central Philippines], DSWD personnel had to be reassigned to Yolanda areas,” said Liza Quirog, head of the government’s inter-agency coordinator for Bohol relief efforts. “We are finalizing the list of qualified beneficiaries today [27 January] so we can meet the target for the release of DSWD funds scheduled for this week,” Quirog said. Landslides and sinkholes Loisella Lucino, Bohol’s provincial director, noted that “There is also a problem of finding suitable settlement sites because areas have been declared as landslide-prone… [on] geo-hazard maps.” The  maps were prepared by the Mines and Geosciences Bureau of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (MGB-DENR), and classify defined areas as having low, moderate or high susceptibility to floods, flash floods and landslides. Quirog said six areas have been declared uninhabitable because they are prone to landslides or have sinkholes. Despite these challenges, the spokesman for the government’s Office of Civil Defence, Major Reynaldo Balido, assured IRIN that survivors’ needs will be met. “We will not forget the crises in Zamboanga and Bohol,” he said. “Budgets have been earmarked for the recovery of these two areas, and personnel from national government agencies have been assigned to oversee efforts.” as/pt/he {1} ##LOC[OK]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## Copyright Notice About IRIN Jobs Mobile Feedback Other OCHA Sites Donors     Social Copyright © IRIN 2014. All rights reserved. This material comes to you via IRIN, the humanitarian news and analysis service of the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. The opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect those of the United Nations or its Member States. The boundaries, names and designations used on maps on this site and links to external sites do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the UN. Republication is subject to terms and conditions as set out in the IRIN copyright page.
Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Main Content Sign In/Sign Up Cart: 0 ($0.00) Español Fredericksburg, VA (22401) What We Do Red Cross Stories News &amp; Events Find Your Local Red Cross Shop Donate Funds Donate Blood Take A Class Ways to Help Get Assistance Global Red Cross Response Effort Underway in Wake of Typhoon Volunteers and staff working with food items at Philippine Red Cross HQ. Photo: Jarkko Mikkonen/Finnish Red Cross When responding overseas, the American Red Cross works closely with the affected Red Cross society to provide the level of staff support and assistance requested. Posted March 05, 2014 , Updated article Nearly four months on, the global Red Cross network continues to help families rebuild and rebound from Typhoon Haiyan—a storm that tore through the Philippines with record strength winds and high storm surges. Approximately 16 million people across 40 provinces were affected by Typhoon Haiyan and more than 1 million homes damaged or destroyed. Red Cross volunteers have been caring for people even before Typhoon Haiyan made landfall. Prior to the arrival of the storm, the Philippine Red Cross worked closely with local disaster authorities to support preemptive evacuations, helping move more than 125,000 families to safer shelters. The Philippine Red Cross also disseminated early warning messages and safety tips in areas along the path of the typhoon. When the storm made landfall, the global Red Cross network assisted survivors by delivering food, mosquito nets, medical care and other vital assistance to people in need. Despite blocked roads, destroyed infrastructure, and downed communication lines, the Red Cross was able to get water to more than 710,000 people in the first month and provided vital medical care—delivering 100 babies at a field hospital in Ormoc in its first 10 days. AMERICAN RED CROSS RESPONSE EFFORTS The American Red Cross has played a major role in helping support the global response by lending people, expertise and equipment to the massive effort. The American Red Cross has spent or committed $28 million and deployed 43 disaster specialists to the Philippines, thus far. Its disaster specialists have provided a wide range of support for sheltering activities and relief distribution, as well as technical expertise in mapping, telecommunications and information technology. With financial and technical support from the American Red Cross, the global Red Cross network has distributed cash grants to more than 57,000 families affected by the typhoon. These grants are empowering families to make their own decisions about how to rebuild. “Cash gives people the ability to decide what’s important to them and their family,” said Tracy Reines, head of the American Red Cross’s International Response Operations Center. “It’s efficient. It’s fast. And it’s dignified.” In past disasters, people have used cash to purchase items to meet pressing needs like seeds, school uniforms, bicycle parts and mattresses. The Red Cross has provided cash during previous emergencies, but this is the largest and most ambitious cash transfer effort yet. Houses, crops, the water supply and people’s livelihoods remain damaged, or in many cases, completely destroyed. For example, coconuts trees—a major cash crop in the local economy— were broken in half, meaning years of lost income or farmers. The global Red Cross network will remain active as people overcome these challenges and work to rebuild their lives. 7 Ways the Red Cross is Helpinig People after Typhoon Haiyan Tags: Philippines, Haiyan, Typhoon. About the American Red Cross: The American Red Cross shelters, feeds and provides emotional support to victims of disasters; supplies about 40 percent of the nation&apos;s blood; teaches skills that save lives; provides international humanitarian aid; and supports military members and their families. The Red Cross is a not-for-profit organization that depends on volunteers and the generosity of the American public to perform its mission. For more information, please visit redcross.org or visit us on Twitter at @RedCross. Related Disaster Specialists Spend the Holiday Season in the Philippines December 24, 2013 - Q &amp; A: Mapping the Effects of Typhoon Haiyan January 21, 2014 - See how you can help. Everyone can make a difference. Get Involved Give Blood Help change a life by donating blood or hosting a blood drive. Share a Story Join others who have given and received help. Flood App Get your family and home ready for a flood. The American Red Cross Flood app is the complete solution you need to understand and prepare for flooding and all that comes with it. Get the Flood App Swim App Help your child become a confident swimmer. The American Red Cross Swim app puts the 100 year old Learn to Swim program in the palm of your hand. Brush up on your water safety knowledge, play parent child games together and track your child’s progress in the class. Get the Swim App Pet First Aid App Take care of your furry family member. The American Red Cross Pet First Aid app puts veterinary advice for everyday emergencies in the palm of your hand. Get the app and be prepared to act when called upon. With videos, interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice it’s never been easier to know Pet First Aid. Get the Pet First Aid App Team Red Cross: Volunteer App Team Red Cross wants you! Join Team Red Cross to help provide the care and comfort needed to communities when the unthinkable occurs. Team Red Cross wants people with various backgrounds, talents, and skill levels. Everyone has something special to offer...including you. Make a difference and join Team Red Cross! Get the Volunteer App Wildfire App Be ready for wildfires with the Wildfire App by the American Red Cross. Get the latest state-by-state wildfire news and updates, prepare your family, home and pets, let loved ones know that you are safe even if the power is out – a must have for anyone who lives in an area that is susceptible to wildfires or has loved ones that do. Get the Wildfire App Tornado App Get your family and home ready for a tornado with the official Tornado App from the American Red Cross. The Tornado app puts everything you need to know prepare for a tornado – and all that comes with it – in the palm of your hand. With interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice it’s never been easier to be ready. Get the Tornado App First Aid App The official American Red Cross First Aid app puts expert advice for everyday emergencies in your hand. Available for iPhone and Android devices, the official American Red Cross First Aid app offers videos, interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice it’s never been easier to know first aid. Get the First Aid App Hurricane App Monitor conditions in your area or throughout the storm track, prepare your family and home, find help and let others know you are safe even if the power is out – a must have for anyone who lives in an area where a hurricane may strike or has loved ones who do. Get the Hurricane App Shelter Finder App The Red Cross Shelter Finder is available in the iTunes store and works on iOS devices. The Shelter Finder displays open Red Cross shelters and their current population on an easy to use map interface. Get the Shelter Finder App Earthquake App Be ready for an earthquake with Earthquake by American Red Cross. Get notified when an earthquake occurs, prepare your family and home, find help and let others know you are safe even if the power is out – a must have for anyone who lives in an earthquake-prone area or has loved ones who do. Get the Earthquake App Contact Us Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube Who We Are Mission, Vision, and Fundamental Principles Our History Governance Publications Career Opportunities Media Resources What We Do Disaster Relief Supporting America&apos;s Military Families Health and Safety Training &amp; Education Lifesaving Blood International Services Plan &amp; Prepare Prepare Your Home and Family Prepare Your School Prepare Your Workplace Types of Emergency Tools and Resources Our Supporters Corporate and Foundation Community Partners Individual Major Donors National Celebrity Cabinet Volunteer Involve Your School Host a Blood Drive Workplace Giving Fundraise © Copyright 2014 The American Red Cross Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Connect With Us FAQ Contact Us
Turn autoplay off Turn autoplay on Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off Jump to content [s] Jump to site navigation [0] Jump to search [4] Terms and conditions [8] Edition: UK US AU Your activity Email subscriptions Account details Linked services Sign out Profile Beta About us About us Contact us Press office Terms of service Privacy policy Subscribe Guardian iPhone iPad edition Kindle Guardian Weekly Digital edition News US World Sports Comment Culture Business Money Environment Science Travel Tech Media Life &amp; style Data News World news Typhoon Haiyan Tacloban three months after Typhoon Haiyan – in pictures The stop-start progress of rebuilding Tacloban, three months after one of the most powerful storms ever recorded obliterated it, is hampered by infighting between the Philippine presidential office of Benigno Aquino and the local mayor, Alfred Romualdez Tindog Tacloban: the mayor of a town rising up from Typhoon Haiyan - video Share Tweet this Email theguardian.com, Thursday 6 February 2014 20.47 EST Print this Share Contact us Send to a friend Sender&apos;s name Recipient&apos;s email address Your IP address will be logged Share Short link for this page: http://gu.com/p/3mgq6 StumbleUpon reddit Tumblr Digg LinkedIn del.icio.us Facebook Twitter Contact us Report errors or inaccuracies: userhelp@theguardian.com Letters for publication should be sent to: letters@theguardian.com If you need help using the site: userhelp@theguardian.com Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000 Advertising guide License/buy our content Joel, a fisherman who lost his boat and fishing equipment during the typhoon now earns a living selling scrap metal that he finds along the shore in Anibong Bay. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Joel and his partner May-May live in a house on stilts above the water in Anibong Bay that Joel built using wood salvaged from the storm wreckage and a tarpaulin provided by Oxfam. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Night falls in an area of Tacloban which gets most of its electricity from a wrecked ship’s generator. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Shops and small stores are opening three months after Typhoon Haiyan. In a badly-hit part of Tacloban, a shop offering phone credit has already been built and is well stocked. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Children play in Anibong Bay, Tacloban three months after the typhoon. Residents have been warned not live within 40 metres of the sea but many have nowhere else to go and erect shanty houses along the shoreline. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam A woman, who survived the typhoon by climbing up a steep hill, stands beside her temporary home. “I’m scared living here. When the tide comes up here, I’m very nervous that my house will be destroyed,” she said. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Houses on stilts have been built using wood salvaged from the storm wreckage and tarpaulin provided by Oxfam in Rawis, Anibong Bay, Tacloban. Photograph: El Girls wash their clothes on a stretch of coast in Tacloban where homes were flattened by the storm surge and ships crashing onto the shore. Oxfam has reached almost 550,000 people with relief in the first three months of the response, including clean water to more than 200,000 people by supporting the government to repair and fix broken pipes. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Along the typhoon’s devasting path more than 33 million coconut trees were destroyed by 195mph winds. It will take between six to eight years for the coconut plantations to grow back. Photograph: Eleanor Farmer/Oxfam Share Tweet this Email Don&apos;t show again Hide On the Guardian today Money When the French clock off at 6pm, they really mean it Technology Heartbleed: don&apos;t rush to update passwords, security experts warn World news Sriracha hot sauce production declared public nuisance by California city Life and style Flirtation or sexual harassment? Here&apos;s how to tell the difference World news Man suspected of 40 murders in US Science States look to naloxone to cure America’s overdose epidemic Today&apos;s best video We&apos;re Going on a Bear Hunt: &apos;The editors were so excited they were nearly weeping&apos; 25 years after its publication, author Michael Rosen and illustrator Helen Oxenbury discuss their children&apos;s classic James Lovelock: give up on saving the planet Gaia theorist previews exhibition at London&apos;s Science Museum The film to watch this week Peter Bradshaw recommends the Iranian film Willow and Wind Call of Duty and the explosive rise of pro gaming Meet the players, sponsors, coaches, parents and pundits On World news Most viewed Latest Last 24 hours 1.  Oscar Pistorius accused of egotistical behaviour with Reeva Steenkamp 2. Oscar Pistorius trial live - 10 April 3. Silvio Berlusconi&apos;s judgment day – you choose the sentence 4. Sriracha hot sauce production declared public nuisance by California city 5. Christine Lagarde: huge government and bank debts risk new financial crash More most viewed Last 24 hours 1.  Record turnout across India largely peaceful in first big election day 2. MoD fails in attempt to stifle criticism of Afghan conflict 3. Oscar Pistorius admits he had no reason to fire shots that killed girlfriend 4. Oscar Pistorius: &apos;I didn&apos;t have time to think&apos; - video 5. Russian MPs say Mikhail Gorbachev should be prosecuted for treason All today&apos;s stories Sponsored feature License/buy our content | Privacy policy | Terms of service | US advertising | A - Z index | About us © 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. ;
Your Region: National BC Calgary Edmonton Halifax Lethbridge Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg On TV: Entertainment Tonight Canada Sections National National sections Locals Local sections Watch Watch sections Search Sections Health Money Tech Entertainment Environment Science Lifestyle Sports Featured Canada World Politics Investigations Your Region National Change BC Calgary Edmonton Halifax Lethbridge Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg Health Money Tech Entertainment Environment Science Lifestyle Sports Jump to a Region National BC Calgary Edmonton Halifax Lethbridge Montreal National New Brunswick Okanagan Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg WATCH: Dash cam captures incredible cement truck head-on crash Schedule NowEntertainment Tonight Canada 1:00pmDays of Our Lives More Programs Global National The West Block 16×9 The Morning Show More Personalities Dawna Friesen Carolyn Jarvis Liza Fromer Tom Clark More World Prosecutor: Pistorius is untruthful, an egotist Canada Ice may have crushed blue whales to death News How to create a more secure password Canada Apps on a plane! Air Canada to offer Wi-Fi Canada 6 vaccination myths debunked World 1 dead after car crashes into daycare centre Canada Is Poilievre full of baloney on new bill? Entertainment Peaches Geldof autopsy inconclusive Trending The Masters Flight MH370 Heartbleed bug GM Recall Trevor Linden Oscar Pistorius Patrick Brazeau measles Lev Tahor Super Typhoon Haiyan Philippine Canadian Centre of Manitoba January 16, 2014 4:51 pm UPDATE: local group finally ready to send relief money to Philippines By Eric Szeto Reporter/Anchor The Philippine Canadian Centre of Manitoba says it’s ready to send $72,000 in typhoon relief donations to the Philippines. Continue reading → World December 24, 2013 1:31 pm “Every time I lift a child’s body, I could feel that the agony of a parent, a family somewhere, is about to end.” Fire officer Rolando Unay In typhoon’s wake, Christmas infused with tragedy in the Philippines →   What is this? Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News&apos; editorial staff. If you&apos;d like to learn more... What is this ? X What is this? Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News&apos; editorial staff. If you&apos;d like to learn more... More stories below Global News December 21, 2013 7:45 pm “Please hold on. Don’t despair. We have come to help you.” Ban Ki-moon, U.N. Secretary-General UN chief visits typhoon-ravaged Philippine villages → Global News December 18, 2013 1:43 am Secretary of State John Kerry announces $25M in new aid for typhoon-ravaged Philippines The United States is providing nearly $25 million in additional humanitarian aid to help the Philippines deal with the enormous devastation and deaths wrought by Typhoon Haiyan last month. Continue reading → 2013 Year in Review December 17, 2013 10:00 am Weather extremes of 2013 From historic flooding in Calgary, to one of the most powerful typhoons ever recorded, 2013 was a year of weather extremes. Continue reading → Canada December 16, 2013 7:25 pm Canadian disaster assistance team DART being pulled out of the Philippines Canada’s disaster-relief effort in the Philippines is winding up, with the military hoping to get most of its people home for Christmas. Continue reading →   What is this? Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News&apos; editorial staff. If you&apos;d like to learn more... What is this ? X What is this? Branded content is written by or on behalf of our sponsor and not by Global News&apos; editorial staff. If you&apos;d like to learn more... Global News December 13, 2013 12:42 am Death toll from Typhoon Haiyan in Philippines passes 6,000 mark Officials say the death toll from Typhoon Haiyan that struck the central Philippines on Nov. 8 has breached 6,000 with nearly 1,800 people missing. Continue reading → Music December 10, 2013 6:20 pm Justin Bieber raises funds for Typhoon Haiyan victims The Canadian pop star is offering fans who donate to his typhoon relief effort a chance to hang out with him in studio. Continue reading → More stories below Typhoon Haiyan December 8, 2013 12:30 pm One month since Typhoon Haiyan, signs of progress and challenges in Philippine disaster zone The Philippines is currently posting impressive economic growth, but corruption is endemic and the country remains desperately poor, with millions living in slums. Continue reading → Global News December 6, 2013 11:22 am Winnipeggers Show their support for Philippines disaster relief Winnipeg’s Filipino community will host a concert featuring Maria Aragon and Sierra Noble to raise funds for their devastated homeland. Continue reading → Load More Popular Now Baby in Pakistan charged with attempted murder 16542 WATCH: Irish priest belts out &apos;Hallelujah&apos; at wedding 11469 Suspended senator Brazeau faces charges of assault, threats, drug possession 10326 Heartbleed bug: How to create a more secure password 5872 WATCH: Dash cam captures incredible cement truck head-on crash 5503 Featured Content Entertainment Colbert to replace Letterman on ‘Late Show’ Stephen Colbert will succeed David Letterman as the host of “The Late Show” when Letterman retires from the program in 2015. Continue reading → Crime WATCH: Dash cam captures incredible cement truck crash A cement truck flips over and plows head-on into a minivan and the entire incredible collision is captured on a dash cam. Continue reading → Canada Faking it in bed? Your partner can tell If you’re faking the moaning and groaning between the sheets, just stop. New Canadian research suggests your partner can tell you’re not into it. Continue reading → Consumer L.A. suburb declares Sriracha hot sauce factory a public nuisance A Southern California city has declared the factory that produces the popular Sriracha hot sauce a public nuisance. Continue reading → Crime WATCH: Woman mugged while giving TV interview about crime Watch as a thief attempts to rip a necklace from a woman’s neck as she gives a television interview about high crime rates in Rio de Janeiro. Continue reading → World No work emails after 6 p.m. becomes law for some in France With after-hours work emails cutting into employees’ downtime, unions in France have been fighting for a law to put an end to it. Continue reading → Canada Banks say defences in place to keep online info safe from ‘Heartbleed’ Online and mobile banking customers may be concerned about how secure their info is on the Internet. TD Bank says key customer info is safe. Continue reading → Highlights Global teams up with TSN to deliver live coverage of The Masters For the second year in a row, Global is teaming up with TSN to deliver complete coverage of The Masters live from Augusta National. Continue reading → Email alerts Sign up for daily Globalnews.ca newsletters and breaking news alerts Email Address National Daily News National Breaking News By clicking on the submit button, I have read, understood and agreed to our privacy policy Twitter Follow globalnews 10 minutes ago Globalnews.ca @globalnews MORE: Colbert signs 5-year deal to host &apos;The Late Show&apos; when David Letterman retires ow.ly/vEprc 23 minutes ago Globalnews.ca @globalnews Stephen Colbert to replace David Letterman on ‘Late Show’ ow.ly/vEn7d 59 minutes ago Globalnews.ca @globalnews WATCH: Woman mugged while giving TV interview about crime ow.ly/vEgc8 Jump to a Region BC Calgary Edmonton Halifax Lethbridge Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg Connect Facebook Twitter Google+ RSS Contact Us Global News About Us Privacy Policy Principles &amp; Practices Terms &amp; Conditions Copyright Media Advertise Open Data © Shaw Media Inc., 2014. All rights reserved. Shaw Connect Expand News Entertainment Entertainment Home Celebs Movies TV Music Living Lifestyle Food Home &amp; Living Sports Money Tech Travel Breaktime Autos Watch TV Online All Sites Global Global News Food Network HGTV History Television Showcase Slice DTOUR ET Canada National Geographic Movietime Lifetime H2 DIY Action NG Wild Mystery IFC BBC Deja Vu Twist
Filmmaker from Hawaii releases documentary about Typhoon Haiyan - Hawaii News Now - KGMB and KHNL SITE SEARCH WEB SEARCH BY LIVE STREAM Hawaii News Now Investigates H1 Rehab Project Facebook Twitter Download our Mobile Apps Blogs EEO Public File Reports 2013 H1 Rehab Project Hawaii News Now Investigates LIVE STREAM Every morning on Sunrise Sunrise features Hurricane Center Tsunami Center Interactive Radar 7 day forecast Surf Report Vog Forecast Pacific Satellite Center Bracket Busters College Sports News Baseball Football Rainbow Warriors: Inside The Huddle Basketball Main Tax Guide Entertainment Money Home/Family Health Food Pets Tech Travel Beauty &amp; Style Auto VideoBytes Press Releases TV Listings America Now CBS Video Player NBC Video Player KHNL Antenna TV Community Care Moms In Hawaii HI Achievers Local connection Good Things Pet Connections Contests / Promotions Anchors / Reporters News Department Sales Department Marketing / Online Departments Digital Sales Blogs Jobs EEO Public File Reports 2013 Filmmaker from Hawaii releases documentary about Typhoon Haiyan Posted: Tuesday, February 25, 2014 2:31 AM EST Updated: Tuesday, February 25, 2014 4:21 AM EST By Mileka Lincoln - bio | email Courtesy: Ricky Fosheim Courtesy: Ricky Fosheim Courtesy: Ricky Fosheim Anthony Begonia Ricky Fosheim HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Three months after Super Typhoon Haiyan devastated the Philippines, the destruction and relief struggles are no longer dominating headlines -- but a filmmaker from Hawai&apos;i is hoping to change that. &quot;The world needs to see what happened and the world needs to know they can still support what&apos;s going on,&quot; said Anthony Begonia, documentary producer of  &quot;Bayanihan: The Spirit Of Community&quot;. According to the 2010 U.S. Census, Filipinos and part-Filipinos make up the second-largest racial group in Hawaii. It&apos;s clear our community&apos;s ties run deep -- more than $1.75 million dollars was raised at &quot;Kokua for the Philippines&quot;, despite severe weather canceling the television broadcast and outdoor concerts. Begonia, whose family is from Kaua&apos;i and who is of Filipino descent, hopes his documentary will remind Haiyan victims they are not forgotten. &quot;We hope that it can soften the hearts of people.  We believe that what we can&apos;t sometimes see, we can&apos;t really grieve -- but we have a chance to see it now and maybe we can have some empathy towards what happened there,&quot; Begonia said. Armed with a camera and fueled by faith, Begonia and documentary director and cinematographer, Ricky Fosheim, landed in Tacloban ten days after Haiyan killed 6,000 people.  Three months later, nearly 2,000 are still missing. &quot;They have so little to begin with and then all of that was taken away from them, and they just welcomed us with open arms.  We ate with them, we laughed with them, we cried with them.  We were embraced in their community and it felt so good to be appreciated to be there,&quot; Fosheim described. Begonia and Fosheim chronicled two Salvation Army cadets who were searching for missing family members. &quot;We didn&apos;t know what was going to happen, it was reality filming at its finest.  We were just covering what we could with very limited resources,&quot; Begonia explained. The filmmakers hope their documentary will remind people of the hundreds of millions of dollars still needed for food and emergency shelter. According to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, $78.7 million is still needed in food security assistance and more than $132 million is needed for emergency shelter. &quot;100% of a donation to the Salvation Army for the relief effort in Tacloban goes directly to the people of Philippines,&quot; explained John Chamness, the Divisional Commander of Salvation Army Hawaiian Pacific Islands Division.  &quot;I think it&apos;s always important for the people of Hawai&apos;i, as we have always done in the past, to reach out and help our neighbors in need.  We have such a great connection with the Philippines, many friends and family live in the Philippines and vice versa many people from the Philippines live here in Hawai&apos;i, and those are our brothers and sisters, those are our neighbors, those are the people we have relationships with.  We need to continue to support and help the people in the Philippines,&quot; Chamness said. Typhoon Haiyan displaced an estimated four million people in the Philippines -- that&apos;s more than Hurricane Katrina and the Indian Ocean tsunami combined. &quot;The problems actually get worse for many people, they don&apos;t get better.  Our hope is that people don&apos;t forget about everything that happened,&quot; Fosheim said. &quot;Sadness could&apos;ve been something we saw everywhere, but the spirit of the Filipino people was truly evident.  They never give up,&quot; described Begonia. The documentary premiered Monday night on the Salvation Army Vision network and is available online.  Filmmakers cut more than 28 hours of footage into 26 minutes. Watch it here: http://www.savn.tv/campaign/view/1150    Follow Mileka Lincoln:        Copyright 2014 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.  Explore HawaiiNewsNow.com Home News Sunrise Weather Sports Video Lifestyle What&apos;s On Community About Us News Local News National News International News Political News Features Strange News Email Alerts Sunrise Every Morning on Sunrise Every Week on Sunrise Sunrise Special Features Sunrise Videos Sunrise Archives Weather 7 Day Forecast Surf Report Interactive Radar Tides Severe Weather Hurricane Tracker Pacific Satellite Center Sports Local Sports UH Sports College Sports MLB NFL NBA Video Lifestyle What&apos;s On TV Listings NBC Player CBS Player America Now Community About Us Anchors and Reporters News Department Sales Department Marketing/Online Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Watch us on YouTube ConnectNOW Closed Captioning KHNL FCC Public File KHNLpublicfile @hawaiinewsnow.com 808-847-3246 EEO Report KGMB FCC Public File KGMBpublicfile @hawaiinewsnow.com 808-847-3246 EEO Report All content © Copyright 2000 - 2014 WorldNow and KHNL, a Raycom Media Station. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please read our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
VOA Sites by Language Top Stories: Ukraine Offers Protesters Amnesty UN Approves New CAR Peacekeeping Force English WorldwideEnglishvoanews.comLearning Englishlearningenglish.voanews.com Eastern &amp; Central EuropeShqipZeriamerikes.comBosanskivijestiglasaamerike.comΕλληνικάgr.voanews.comМакедонскиmk.voanews.comSrpskiglasamerike.netУкраїнськаchastime.com EurasiaՀայերենamerikayidzayn.comAzerbaijaniamerikaninsesi.orgქართულიamerikiskhma.comРусскийgolos-ameriki.ru Central AsiaO‘zbekamerikaovozi.com East &amp; Southeast AsiaBurmeseburmese.voanews.com粵語voacantonese.com中文voachinese.comBahasa Indonesiavoaindonesia.comខ្មែរkhmer.voanews.comKhmervoacambodia.com한국어voakorea.comລາວlao.voanews.comไทยvoathai.comབོད་ཡིགvoatibetan.comTibetanvoatibetanenglish.comTiếng Việtvoatiengviet.com South Asiaবাংলাvoabangla.comدریdarivoa.comپښتوpashtovoa.comوی او اې ډيوه ريډیوvoadeewaradio.comاردوurduvoa.com AfricaAfaan Oromoovoaafaanoromoo.comአማርኛamharic.voanews.comFrançaislavoixdelamerique.comHausavoahausa.comKinyarwandaradiyoyacuvoa.comKirundiradiyoyacuvoa.comNdebelevoandebele.comPortuguêsvoaportugues.comShonavoashona.comSoomaaligavoasomali.comKiswahilivoaswahili.comትግርኛtigrigna.voanews.comZimbabwevoazimbabwe.com Middle East / North Africaفارسیir.voanews.comكوردیdengiamerika.comKurdidengeamerika.comTürkçeamerikaninsesi.com Latin AmericaCreolevoanouvel.comEspañolvoanoticias.com VOA Log in Sign up Log out Home USA Africa Asia Mideast Europe Science &amp; Tech Health Entertainment Economy Programs Audio menu Listen Global News &amp; Music  Latest Newscast International Edition Africa Live Global Live Music Mix Latest Newscast News / Asia Philippines Coconut Industry Struggles to Recover after Typhoon Haiyan Print Comment Share: Philippines Coconut Industry Struggles to Recover after Typhon Haiyan i ▶ ▶ || 0:00:00 ... ⇱   🔇 ▶ ▶ X March 07, 2014 After Typhoon Haiyan devastated the Philippines, parts of the archipelago nation are still recovering. Among those hardest hit were farmers, nearly half of whom harvest coconuts. Jason Strother reports from Leyte province, where efforts to revitalize the coconut farming industry are underway. Philippines Coconut Industry Struggles to Recover after Typhon Haiyan Tweet Related Articles  Search for the Missing Continues in Tacloban, Philippines TEXT SIZE - + Jason Strother / Malte Kollenberg March 07, 2014 TACLOBAN, PHILIPPINES — Last December, Typhoon Haiyan&apos;s destructive winds devastated the Philippines. Parts of the archipelago nation are still recovering. Among those hardest hit were farmers, nearly half of whom harvest coconuts. In Leyte province, efforts to revitalize the coconut farming industry are underway.   Before the storm, farmers at a farm in rural Leyte harvested the dried meat, or copra, of coconuts to make oil, but Typhoon Haiyan’s destruction has made the future of this and many other small plantations unclear.   The farm’s caretaker, Arnulflo Barcero, 52, said the typhoon knocked out the large majority of the farm&apos;s trees.   “Before the typhoon we had 700 trees and now there are only 90 trees still standing. It’s a problem for the community because we rely on the copras to earn a living,” said Barcero.   Around 40 percent of farmers in Leyte province work in the coconut industry.  The downed trees mean they have nothing to sell and the help they employ have no work. But for others, the devastation is creating income.   Francisco Alverca, a chainsaw operator who has been called in to help cut up the fallen and damaged trees, is one of those benefiting.    “I think it will take several months to complete all the work here, it is a big property,” said Alverca.   Alverca and other chainsaw operators are employed in the many sawmills around Leyte province. International aid groups hire them and train local farmers to use saws to clear the land of dead trees so new ones can be planted. Now, coconut lumber is in high demand.   The wood is transported from the ruined farms to the city of Tacloban to build shelters for those displaced by the typhoon.   Around 100 families in the town of Palo are rebuilding their own homes with the freshly cut lumber.     Rice farmer Rudolfo Palamos, 74, had his entire house ripped apart by Haiyan’s strong winds.   “This area has a lot of coconut trees. The wood isn’t so expensive and it’s easy to build with.  Most of my house was rebuilt with the coconut tree lumber, including the walls, the corner posts,” said Palamos.   There are many more fallen trees back in the plantations. But there is concern that time is running out to cut them up.   Caroline Gluck, with OXFAM, an aid group that oversees six sawmill programs in Leyte province, said time is of the essence.   “In three months the likelihood is that many of these trees will rot and become infested with pests. And those pests can eat some of the still standing and productive trees,” said Gluck.   Once the downed trees are cleared, aid groups can start helping coconut farmers replant on their land, but it could take several more years before new trees are ready for harvest. Print Comment Share: Tweet You May Like Turkish PM&apos;s Presidential Bid Faces Bumpy Road While some observers argue ruling party&apos;s victory in recent local elections opens door for Erdogan to run in August’s race, his run likely to be fraught with obstacles More Insurgent Bombings in Southern Thailand Target Local Economy The recent bombings were the first major attack since authorities adopted tighter security measures after a wave of bombings two years ago More  Health Care Workers Struggle to Contain Guinea Ebola Outbreak World Health Organization calls West Africa outbreak among the most challenging ever More This forum has been closed. Comments       There are no comments in this forum. Be first and add one Complete Coverage Featured Videos Your JavaScript is turned off or you have an old version of Adobe&apos;s Flash Player. Get the latest Flash player. Former Palestinian Prisoner Teaches Hebrew i ▶ ▶ || 0:00:00 ... ⇱   270p / 4.0MB 360p / 7.0MB 486p / 67.0MB   🔇 ▶ ▶ X April 09, 2014 The protracted Middle East peace process is in danger of stalling yet again, as Israel reneged on the planned release of another batch of Palestinian prisoners and the Palestinians renewed their bid to gain United Nations recognition of a Palestinian state. One former Palestinian prisoner may have found a better path to peace. After spending more than 20 years in an Israeli prison, he now teaches Hebrew to Palestinian children in the West Bank. Zlatica Hoke reports. Video  Former Palestinian Prisoner Teaches Hebrew The protracted Middle East peace process is in danger of stalling yet again, as Israel reneged on the planned release of another batch of Palestinian prisoners and the Palestinians renewed their bid to gain United Nations recognition of a Palestinian state. One former Palestinian prisoner may have found a better path to peace. After spending more than 20 years in an Israeli prison, he now teaches Hebrew to Palestinian children in the West Bank. Zlatica Hoke reports. Comment (0) Video  Artists with Disabilities Enter Mainstream Through Art Very often people with developmental disabilities are better able to express themselves in images than in words. That’s one of the reasons an art studio in Washington DC has designed a program to help artists with disabilities express and support themselves in a number of creative ways. VOA reporter Julie Taboh reports. Comment (0) Video  20 Years After Genocide, Rwanda Prospers But Political Freedom Remains Elusive Rwanda is a country on the move, having rebuilt from the genocide of 1994 that divided the nation and left an estimated 800,000 people dead. But as VOA&apos;s Gabe Joselow reports, some say the country&apos;s recovery has come at the cost of political freedom. Comment (1) Video  High Frequency Traders Under Scrutiny The U. S. Justice Department is investigating the relationship between high frequency trading firms and major exchanges -- and regulators in Washington and the state of New York are taking aim at them as well. At issue is the integrity of the worldwide marketplace and the appropriate use of advanced technology. VOA’s Bernard Shusman reports from Wall Street in New York City. Comment (1) Video  US Non-Confrontational Approach in Venezuela Means Less Media Coverage Outside of Latin America the anti-government street protests in Venezuela have been receiving relatively little news coverage, especially when compared to the crisis in Ukraine. Even though the South American nation is a major oil producer and its deteriorating economic and political stability could affect the world, restrictions on the press and a seeming lack of engagement by U.S. officials are keeping Venezuela out of the headlines. VOA&apos;s Brian Padden reports from Washington. Comment (0) Video  Russia and West in Chess Match Over Ukraine Following Russia&apos;s annexation of Crimea, the West is trying to work out what the Kremlin&apos;s next move will be. Both the United States and Britain have expressed concern about Russia&apos;s troop buildup on the Ukrainian border. VOA&apos;s Mary Motta looks at President Vladimir Putin&apos;s strategy in what has become an increasingly tense geopolitical chess game between East and West. Comment (0) Video  Robots Getting Ready for Dull, Dirty and Dangerous Jobs Robotic house helpers may still be a long way off but robots that can replace humans in hazardous environments are closer and closer to becoming a reality. Roboticists at Carnegie Mellon University are designing advanced robots for dull, dirty and dangerous jobs. VOA’s George Putic reports. Comment (1) Video  Remote South Africa Village Gets Electricity for First Time -- in 2014 South Africa is the African continent&apos;s most advanced nation -- yet an estimated 3 million of its residents live without electricity. The government says it&apos;s working to improve its infrastructure to reach those people -- many of them in remote areas -- but it is simultaneously struggling to provide enough power for its growing urban population. In a remote South African village, electricity is available for the first time in 2014. Anita Powell reports. Comment (0) More Asia News  Afghan Presidential Hopeful Urges Transparent Vote Count  After Indonesia&apos;s Surprise Election, Top Party Hunts for Friends Chinese Premier Calls for More Cooperation, Free Trade  Taiwan Students End Parliament Sit-in China: Reforms, Not ‘Forceful Stimulus,’ Will Boost Economy Indonesia Stocks Drop Following Initial Election Tallies Ministers: Big Gaps Remain Between US, Japan in Trade Talks  US, Mongolia Bolster Military Ties During Hagel Visit  Indians Vote in Key Election  Ping Detection Narrows Search for MH370 More Articles Blogs Science World Researchers Discover How to Speed Metabolism 22 hours ago Excessive Gamma Rays at Milky Way’s Center Hint at Dark Matter 5 days ago Flies Credited with Giving Zebras Their Stripes 7 days ago The Student Union Why Is It Hard To Make Western Friends?  Funding Your U.S. Study  The Personal Perks of Studying Abroad  Most Viewed  Malaysia Jet Search Area Narrows Malaysia Jet Search Chief Optimistic Plane Will Be Found  Diplomat: US Expectations Low for Talks with Russia on Ukraine  Ping Detection Narrows Search for MH370 Suspected Black Box Signals Reacquired in MH370 Search Most Emailed  US Navy Develops Fuel from Seawater WHO Issues Guidelines for Hepatitis C Treatment Stakeholders Question Involvement of Zimbabwe in Malawi Elections Obama Pushes for Equal Pay for Women Most Discussed Kerry Says &apos;Russian Agents&apos; Behind Crisis in Eastern Ukraine (24) US Warns Russia Against Instigating Separatist Tensions in Ukraine (19) Ukraine Crisis Seen As Wake-up Call for NATO (9) Diplomat: US Expectations Low for Talks with Russia on Ukraine (9) US Sanctions Don&apos;t Worry South Sudan Government, Rebels (8) Services: Podcast RSS Mail Subscription Mobile VOANews.com USA Africa Asia Mideast Europe Americas Science &amp; Technology Health Arts &amp; Entertainment Business &amp; Economy Blogs Video Editorials About VOA Media Relations Contact Us Job Opportunities Terms of Use/Privacy Policy Our Languages Usage Requests Our Partners RFE/RL Radio Free Asia MBN Radio Marti Our Broadcasts Frequencies and Schedules Pronunciation Guide Broadcast Programs
News Shows In Depth Opinion Human Rights Video Blogs Sport Investigations Weather Watch Live Africa Americas Asia-Pacific Central &amp; South Asia Europe Middle East Inside Story Witness Listening Post People &amp; Power 101 East The Stream More Focus Features In Pictures Interactive Spotlight Football Cricket Tennis Formula One Golf US Sports Features More           Counting the Cost News   This month on Al Jazeera Features One hundred days since Typhoon Haiyan Parts of the Philippines affected by the storm remain a long way from recovery, and aid is drying up. Kim Nguyen Last updated: 18 Feb 2014 11:07 Two members of Girlie and Berna-Mae&apos;s family were killed in Typhoon Haiyan [Kim Nguyen/Al Jazeera] Tacloban, Philippines - One hundred days have passed since Typhoon Haiyan swept away Girlie Misa&apos;s home, along with her husband and five-year-old son. Her father has just finished rebuilding her house, one room of plywood and corrugated iron, on the concrete and tiles left when the storm surge receded. She knows it&apos;s dangerous to live in this part of Tacloban, only separated from the sea by a low concrete wall. But Girlie and her two daughters, 15-year-old Bhona-Marie and 12-year-old Berna-Mae, have nowhere else to go.  The speed of recovery in many typhoon-ravaged areas has been impressive. In the past few weeks businesses in Tacloban, the city at the epicentre of the typhoon&apos;s destruction, have begun re-opening in large numbers. Restaurants, hotels, shops and markets are re-appearing throughout the city. In some areas it is hard to imagine that not long ago, the streets were littered with bodies and debris. But for the poorest, the challenges of surviving Haiyan continue. Government inaction and alleged corruption, lack of effective funding from international donors and a collective failure to address climate change have left many dangerously exposed. Hundreds of thousands of people on the island of Leyte still live in areas vulnerable to storm surges, and there is no viable plan to protect them. Many lost their livelihoods to the typhoon, and very few know when and where they can move. &quot;Relocation is the only thing we are asking for,&quot; said Girlie. Typhoon-hit Philippine farmers seek help &apos;No-build zone&apos; Shortly after Haiyan hit, the Aquino administration announced a &quot;no-build zone&quot;, banning construction within 40 metres of the sea shore. This was meant as a safety measure, but in practice the law would mean the mass migration of tens of millions of Filipinos across the country, many whom make their living from the sea. The government has no plan for where they would go and what they would do. The law has yet to be enforced, and many are sceptical it is even possible to implement it. With land scarce, Girlie and her daughters have been forced to return to the site of their old home, despite their fears another typhoon could destroy it yet again. The UN estimates that more than 4 million people remain homeless due to Haiyan, with more than 100,000 still in evacuation centres. Conditions are often poor, with overcrowding, limited sanitation and reports of crime and abuse. Many makeshift evacuation centres, such as schools and universities, are now pushing out the occupants. A few families have already transferred to newly erected bunkhouses, the government&apos;s temporary solution to the homelessness crisis. But according to the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), the bunkhouses have been poorly built, rendering them unsafe. Some have been constructed on private land only available until June. Even if all the bunkhouses were completed immediately and met minimum standards, the IOM states there would not be enough for all those who need them.  The mayor of Tacloban, Alfred Romualdez, says the solution is ultimately a new permanent housing development north of the city. But that area is also problematic - too small to fit all the displaced people, far from work opportunities and prone to flooding. It is unknown when these homes would be ready, as the land is still being cleared and construction is yet to begin. The result is that those like Girlie who live in the &quot;no build zone&quot; consider themselves &quot;temporary permanent&quot; settlers, likely to remain in housing limbo indefinitely.  Funds misused? Meanwhile, questions have been raised about the misuse of funds meant for disaster management. Mayor Romualdez and President Aquino, members of the two most powerful opposing political families in the country, have traded accusations of ineptitude and inaction. Salvador Estudillo, who headed Tacloban&apos;s Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office during and after Haiyan, recently resigned. He cited pressure from the mayor to sign documents on the spending of Tacloban&apos;s &quot;Calamity Fund&quot;, a percentage of the city&apos;s budget set aside to cover disaster preparation and relief, despite not knowing where the money had gone. Romualdez has denied wrongdoing, arguing that the 2013 Calamity Fund was correctly accounted for.  Evidence of abuse of power is not hard to find. Local city and provincial officials freely admit buying votes, describing it as a necessity of Filipino politics. In January, city councillors received large personal checks from the Philippine Councillors&apos; League, while their constituents protested outside about the lack of promised financial support from the government. Tacloban&apos;s local government is facing an especially difficult 2014. Its budget has been cut almost by half as post-typhoon tax revenues have fallen drastically. Spending on vital services including disaster recovery and preparedness have been reduced, with Mayor Romualdez calling for increased support from the national government.  Children struggle to cope after Haiyan And humanitarian organisations are facing a massive gap in funding, according to the UN Office of Coordination and Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). OCHA, along with UN and international NGO agencies, developed a Typhoon Haiyan Strategic Response Plan last year, requiring $788m to cover the essential needs of the affected communities. But so far less than 50 percent has been received, with early recovery and livelihood projects only 18.5 percent funded. Because donors choose where their money is spent rather than the coordinating body, more than $306m of the total $661m donated after Haiyan has been directed to projects outside the Response Plan.  Funding running out One of the most successful projects run by international organisations has been &quot;cash-for-work&quot;, in which Haiyan survivors are paid to clean up typhoon debris. But the clean-up is nearly complete and funding has almost run out. Now, many families are worried they won&apos;t be able to feed themselves. Irvin Tanyala, chairman of the Magallanes community where Girlie lives, said that without jobs, community members will be forced into crime.  Girlie used her husband&apos;s last pay check to buy items that Berna-Mae helps sell from their one window. With that small income and relief food packages they have been able to survive, but Girlie isn&apos;t sure how she&apos;ll feed her family once relief distribution stops in March. She tries to earn extra money at a newly re-opened appliance store, but business is slow and she only gets paid on commission. She says the announcement by USAID, Coca-Cola and Proctor &amp; Gamble to facilitate micro-financing loans doesn&apos;t interest her as she wouldn&apos;t be able to pay off the debt.  Girlie says it&apos;s hard for her and her daughters to stay in the area, her husband died just metres away trying to save their son. Her husband&apos;s body was located three weeks later but her son&apos;s has never been found. Girlie tries to hold back tears, saying she must be strong for the sake of her two daughters, but admits she feels weak inside. She just hopes she is able to help them finish school and make a better life for themselves. 1281 Source: Al Jazeera Topics in this article People Girlie Misa Alfred Romualdez Salvador Estudillo Bhona-Marie Aquino Irvin Tanyala Berna-Mae Country Philippines City Tacloban Organisation International Organisation for Migration Humanitarian Affairs Calamity Fund United Nations United States Agency for International Development Aquino administration Tacloban&apos;s Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office Philippine Councillors&apos; League national government UN office of Coordination and Humanitarian Affairs UN office of Coordination Featured on Al Jazeera Surviving the post-employment economy The author argues that in the new economy, it&apos;s people, not skills or majors, that have lost value. On the record: Journalism is not a crime Colleagues of detained Al Jazeera journalists press demands for their release, 100 days after their arrest in Egypt. Will the internet set us free? Mehdi Hasan discusses online freedoms and the potential of the web with Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales. Infographic: How India forms a government A tight race seems likely as 814 million voters elect leaders in world&apos;s largest democracy next week. Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in accordance with Community Rules &amp; Guidelines and Terms and Conditions. Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. Top News Accordion Top News UN approves peacekeepers for CAR India votes in third phase of elections Trial of Al Jazeera staff adjourned in Cairo Pro-Russian separatists reject Kiev&apos;s amnesty Bomb explodes outside Greece&apos;s central bank News Features Shark fin soup sales plunge in China UK uses health workers in counter-terror plan Polls offer little hope for India&apos;s Muslims US and Russia take high road in outer space Egypt&apos;s Twitter hashtags declare defiance What&apos;s Hot What&apos;s Hot Viewed Discussed 7 Days Flight MH370 search continues in signal zone NATO mulls US troops in eastern Europe UN approves peacekeepers for CAR Surviving the post-employment economy On the Front Lines with the Taliban Pro-Russian separatists reject Kiev&apos;s amnesty Kagame Ethiopia: Where conscience is constantly on trial UK uses health workers in counter-terror plan Battling perceptions: Minorities in the Arab world {Title} Israel warns Palestine of unilateral action Palestinians ready to widen recognition bid Israel cancels Palestinian prisoner release Palestinians must abandon the &apos;peace process&apos; Arab League pledges $100m to Palestinians Ukraine raids pro-Russian separatists Kerry says Russia stirs &apos;chaos&apos; in Ukraine Kerry weighs options on Middle East talks Dutch priest shot dead in Syria&apos;s Homs Israel limits contact with Palestinians Surviving the post-employment economy Israel warns Palestine of unilateral action Infographic: How India forms a government In Pictures: Crackdown in Brazil&apos;s favelas Chinese detect &apos;pulse signal&apos; in Indian Ocean Nigeria becomes Africa&apos;s largest economy Ukraine raids pro-Russian separatists The mystery of CNN 2014 Ukraine fears &apos;Crimea scenario&apos; in east Soldier shoots several dead at US army base {Title} Featured Shark fin soup Austerity, ecological awareness and fishy safety record among the reasons for the delicacy&apos;s decline. Egypt twitter Laws against protests have led youth activists in Egypt to again embrace the social media tools of the 2011 revolution. Syria elections Despite widespread death, destruction and displacement, Assad government will hold presidential polls by July. US prisons: More mentally ill than state hospitals Report slams lack of treatment for seriously ill inmates as &apos;inhumane&apos; Gaza statue A precious statue vanished after its discovery in Gaza last summer and many suspect it is now a hostage to politics Opinion Battling perceptions: Minorities in the Arab world Rachel Shabi Indonesia elections: Infusing democracy Zarina Banu Eastern Mediterranean gas: A new diplomatic opportunity? Ayla Gurel Ethiopia: Where conscience is constantly on trial Awol K Allo How to stabilise Yemen Alastair Sloan Ukraine and the separatist manifestos Olesia Oleshko Why &apos;Jewish state&apos; demand is a non-starter Yousef Munayyer Hungary elections: How the media failed the people Amy Brouillette Will the violence in Iraq ever ebb? Joseph A Kechichian Ukraine and the &apos;parade of sovereignties&apos; Alexander Nekrassov join our mailing list Email Address Close Al Jazeera Watch Live Video Podcasts RSS Mobile Follow on Twitter News Africa Americas Asia-Pacific Central &amp; South Asia Europe Middle East Sport In Depth Opinion Features Spotlight In Pictures Blogs Interactive Shows The Stream Witness Inside Story Inside Story Americas Listening Post People &amp; Power Fault Lines Artscape The Frost Interview 101 East Counting The Cost Talk to Al Jazeera Empire The Cafe Al Jazeera World South2North Inside Syria Watch Live On Demand Podcasts Mobile Broadcast Schedule Weather Hotel/Partners Search More About Us Licensing footage Press Office Work for us Al Jazeera America Al Jazeera Turk AJ Center for Studies AJ Balkans Investigations Community Rules Terms &amp; Conditions
Deseret News Archives: 1850-1987 Share Connect with us ✖ Facebook Twitter Google+ Pinterest Get Updates Profile Info User Account ✖ Login Register NATIONALEDITION BETA Visit the National Edition Why the &apos;Heartbleed&apos; bug is a major threat to your online life Mickey Rooney and faith: Hollywood legend&apos;s belief in Christ All eyes of the nation focused on the 10th Circuit Court Home Blogs Topics Lists Movies Columnists Watch It Utah Politics Business Education Salt Lake County Utah County Davis County Police/Courts Legislature Weather Immigration Utah Wire U.S. &amp; World Sports Jazz BYU Utes USU RSL Bees High School Rock Watch It Scores and Stats On TV NFL MLB WSU Grizzlies UVU SUU Sports Wire Sports Picks Moneywise Sponsored By: Opinion Editorials Op-Eds Letters Political Cartoons Faith LDS General Conference Featured Faiths Mormon Times LDS Church News Mission Reunions Faith Wire Family Marriage &amp; Parenting Family Media Movie Guide Calendar TV Listings Family Life Wire Obituaries Video BrandView Reducing the financial burden for young missionaries Sponsored by 5 ways to help out new (and future) missionaries Sponsored by High school business camp turns students into business pros Sponsored by View All Advertise with us Report this ad LDS Church continues to aid in recovery efforts following Typhoon Haiyan Print Font [+] [-] 1 Comment » By Sarah Jane Weaver, Church News staff writer Published: Monday, March 3 2014 12:26 p.m. MST Updated: Monday, March 3 2014 12:26 p.m. MST View 10 photos » Gemmer Esperas and his wife, Analyn Esperas, sit in a new, sturdy house Gemmer constructed with help from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The couple lost their only child, 6-year-old Annammer, during Typhoon Haiyan. Now, as part of local recovery efforts, Gemmer is receiving training in carpentry and tools from the LDS Church. Sarah Jane Weaver, Deseret News Summary Three months after Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines, recovery is underway. More Coverage Surviving the typhoon: Fear, faith and miracles for 10 LDS sister missionaries trapped in the Philippines Typhoon recovery: Sleepless nights for those in search of help and giving help The real work now begins to ease suffering in the Philippines Before and after: Typhoon&apos;s raw reality gives clarity to survivors Lessons learned in the Philippines: Gratitude and action TOCLOBAN, Philippines — On the day Typhoon Haiyan caused the water to rise in Tocloban, Analyn Esperas held her only child close. Annammer, 6, was scared; she wrapped her arms around her mother’s neck and held tight. The pair stayed inside until the wind took their roof. Then the water came. “We didn’t expect that the water would get so high,” recalled Esperas. “We didn’t have a chance to get to a higher place.” As they tried to escape, the wind and water carried them into a rice field. Esperas clung to a piece of Styrofoam; Annammer clung to her. “It was terrible,” said the mother. When a huge wave hit the pair, the Styrofoam that held them afloat broke in half; Esperas lost both pieces. As they began to swim, a second wave pushed the mother and daughter underwater. They came up for air as a third wave — the biggest wave — struck. A large piece of wood carried by the current dug into Esperas’ chest. Recovering from the force of the impact, Esperas spoke to her daughter. She wondered out loud if they could survive the storm. She was still talking when she realized Annammer was gone — carried away by the third wave. Moving forward It has been more than three months since Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines on Nov. 8, yet the storm’s signature remains. Trees and power lines lay broken and mangled. Rubble is piled along the streets. And foundations or empty shells of homes stand as a reminder of the storm’s strength. Locals — wanting visitors to understand what they went through — continually point to the places they laid their dead. It could be weeks, or months, before electricity returns to Tacloban. The cost of fruits and vegetables, sent here from Manila, is high. And gasoline, which is now needed to power generators as well as automobiles, is still an expensive necessity. But recovery is underway. Roads are clear. Vendors walk the street selling their wares. New homes dot the landscape. And the mountain, brown only weeks ago, is filled with lush, green growth. Analyn Esperas and her husband, Gemmer Esperas, are also recovering. Sitting on the floor of a new, sturdy home — built by Gemmer through a housing construction program provided by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — they talk of Annammer, Typhoon Haiyan and of moving forward. Storm surge Analyn Esperas said the moments after losing her daughter were like a horrible dream. She had expected high winds and rain. What she didn’t expect — or understand — was a storm surge. Three times she dove under the black water. “I didn’t find her.” Another survivor spoke to the mother. “Don’t look for her anymore,” the woman said. Out of strength and freezing, Esperas could not move. But when a large snake slithered along her back, she found herself climbing onto a roof. “I moved because of the snake. That is why I survived.” Once on the roof, Esperas began to vomit black water. The water also poured from the mother’s nose and ears. She waited on the roof for the wind to stop. Then she resumed her search for Annammer. Recovery efforts Typhoon Haiyan destroyed more than 1.1 million homes in the central Philippines. The deadliest typhoon on record in the country, the storm left more than 6,100 people dead, injured 28,000 and displaced 4.1 million. Some 1,785 people remain missing, according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council in the Philippines. After the disaster, the LDS Church sent relief supplies and partnered with local and international relief organizations to assist with food, shelter, water purification, debris removal and livelihood restoration projects. More than 100 days later, the church is still there and the organization’s recovery efforts continue. Typhoon victims “feel like the church is paying attention to them,” said Elder Brent H. Nielson of the Seventy and president of the church’s Philippines Area. “They know we are all in this together and we are not going to leave them alone.” Everything was different Gemmer Esperas was working as a security guard on the day Haiyan stole his daughter. Because there was no sea surge where he was working, he didn’t know the water level was rising at his home. When he returned after work, everything in his community was different. Houses had been ripped from their foundations. Black mud and water consumed the landscape. Twenty-three people died in the house next to his; in total, 74 of his neighbors died. When Gemmer located his wife, there was a nail in her foot, bruises on her body and a large cut on her leg. A Mormon doctor from Manila gave Analyn Esperas a tetanus shot and treated her wounds. For three days the couple searched for their daughter. When they found Annammer’s body, Gemmer held his daughter and looked for her wounds, trying desperately to understand her final moments. But there wasn’t a scratch on the little girl. Annammer’s mother protected her from everything but the sea, he said. &apos;One nail at a time&apos; When Elder Ian S. Ardern of the Seventy and a member of the Philippines Area Presidency first visited Tacloban after Haiyan, he could not find words to describe what he saw — and he was grateful for that. Those sights “will linger in my mind much longer than I want them too,” he said. He wondered how people could rebuild after such a catastrophe. Then he saw a local man with a discarded piece of wood and a hammer. He was pulling an old nail out of the wood. ”I thought, that is where you begin. That is where these Filipinos will begin. They will begin one nail at a time.” Tony San Gabriel, manager for self-reliance in the Philippines, said the LDS Church plans to help with reconstruction. After Typhoon Haiyan, the church immediately set programs in place to provide relief and help members rebuild, restore and retool, he said. “We thought, ‘How do you teach self-reliance to a people who were ravaged by a perfect storm?’ ” They began by helping the some 3,000 members who lost homes in the disaster rebuild. Working with the local Self Reliance Center and with the Perpetual Education Fund, local members are now entering a church-sponsored vocational program. The church is also helping them obtain basic tools and learn skills as carpenters, electricians and plumbers. Each trainee builds his or her own house — about 12 feet by 12 feet in dimension — and nine more homes. Then they receive a trade certificate. “We married the opportunity for livelihood and the need for shelter,” said San Gabriel. “It was a magic formula.&quot; To date, the church has constructed 921 homes through the project. But the organization is building more than homes, said Elder Ardern. “In the face of disaster, we are building people.” Strength to continue In the days after losing his daughter, Gemmer Esperas gathered abandoned sheets of corrugated metal and built a new home. But the gaps in the metal did not protect the couple from the wind or the rain. Most of the time they were forced to stand. They could not sleep. Then a counselor in the bishopric of their LDS ward, Joy Operio, found them. “Go to the church for shelter,” he told them. That night in the LDS meetinghouse they slept for the first time since Annammer&apos;s death. Before the storm, church leaders had been working with the couple — both Latter-day Saints — to attend the LDS temple. They were saving money to travel to Cebu. “We pray to ask Heavenly Father to have strength to continue,” said Gemmer Esperas. “Because of the gospel I learn at church, I have the courage that someday my daughter and my wife and I will be together. That is the reason we continue.” Temporary shelter The LDS Church’s home construction program is not only taking place in Tacloban, but in areas across the disaster zone, said Jairus Perez, a project manager for LDS Humanitarian Services. “This is just a temporary shelter,” he said. “But for most members this is already a permanent home.” He said the church will finish building all the homes by May 15. It wants to build the homes quickly and help the program participants qualify for some of the 250,000 construction jobs available in the area. “We are doing our best to provide for them and minimize their suffering,” Perez said. He is also distributing flashlights and lanterns. “Most place are still in darkness — no electricity,” he said. “We are directly helping people,” he said, “giving them the light that they need and the hope.” Brightening Tacloban Gemmer Esperas is working as part of a five-man construction team, sponsored by the LDS Church. Using tools provided by the church, the team built the Esperases&apos; house and has constructed six additional homes. When the team has completed 10 homes, members will receive construction certificates. Then they will be paid by the church to build additional homes and help train others. Gemmer Esperas said it felt good to build his house, which is 12 feet by 14 feet. His wife feels safe in the home. “I am very comfortable here,” she said. Now they just need to select a color of paint, provided by the church, and complete the project. There are many bright colors available. Church leaders hope the colors will literally brighten Tacloban. The Esperases don’t have to think about the color they will choose. Gemmer speaks without hesitation; he will paint their home pink. It was Annammer’s favorite color. Email: sarah@desnews.com Related Stories Surviving the typhoon: Fear, faith and miracles for 10 LDS sister missionaries trapped in the Philippines Typhoon recovery: Sleepless nights for those in search of help and giving help The real work now begins to ease suffering in the Philippines Popular Comments See all 1 comment » J.A. Jones Calgary, 00 It is so important to have follow up articles after major disastrous events. This was a great article that showed a small part of the suffering and tragedy following a major typhoon. It also highlighted ways that they are rebuilding and recovering More.. 5:42 p.m. March 3, 2014 Top comment Comments Leave a comment » DeseretNews.com encourages a civil dialogue among its readers. We welcome your thoughtful comments.— About comments About the Author Sarah Jane Weaver Sarah Jane Weaver is the assistant editor of the LDS Church News, where since 1995 she has covered, among other things, LDS Welfare Services and Church Education. Her favorite assignments include reporting on LDS Church more .. Connect: Advertise with us Report this ad What You May Have Missed Closing the gap: Why are more black women dying of breast cancer? For the old and young, it&apos;s a tough time to be in the job market Visiting monk teaches Utahns how to &apos;listen for God&apos; throughout day Sign up for news updates Advertise with us Report this ad Most Popular Across Site In Faith LDS adults to get new course outlines for... Former Soviet gold medal-winning gymnast... What the same-sex marriage movement is really... Popular quotes from April 2014 LDS general... Hansen family shares friendly relationship... 184th Annual General Conference talk... Mickey Rooney and faith: Hollywood legend&apos;s... World-renowned blogger celebrates Provo City... LDS adults to get new course outlines for... Former Soviet gold medal-winning gymnast... Alex Boye and One Voice Children&apos;s Choir... What the same-sex marriage movement is really... BYU football position breakdown: Spring camp... Utah Jazz: Dallas star Dirk Nowitzki changes... Same-sex marriage advocates making more noise... Dick Harmon: Schemes of BYU offensive... Get The Deseret News Everywhere Subscribe Mobile Facebook Twitter RSS Email Most Commented Across Site In Faith Women seeking priesthood march again to... 149 What the same-sex marriage movement is... 35 Facebook event challenges Latter-day... 30 New leaders called to serve in growing... 25 LDS adults to get new course outlines... 24 &apos;Noah&apos; blockbuster has almost... 17 Defending the Faith: Four testimonials... 13 Wright Words: Meet the boy who put an... 12 Same-sex marriage advocates making more... 183 Women seeking priesthood march again to... 149 Utah same-sex marriage debate shifts to... 83 Why some liberals are uneasy about... 82 In our opinion: A mom and a dad 82 Supreme Court turns down appeal in New... 77 Does Mozilla CEO ousting portend new... 71 Supreme Court turns deaf ear on New... 67 Advertise with us Report this ad Home Utah U.S. &amp; World Sports Moneywise Opinion Faith Family Obituaries Home » Blogs Topics Lists Movies Columnists Watch It Utah » Politics Business Education Salt Lake County Utah County Davis County Police/Courts Legislature Weather Immigration Utah Wire Sports » Utah Jazz Sports Picks BYU Cougars Utah Utes Utah State Aggies Real Salt Lake Salt Lake Bees High school sports Rock Harmon Watch It Scores and Stats On TV NFL MLB Weber State Wildcats Grizzlies Utah Valley Wolverines Southern Utah University Sports Wire Opinion » Editorials Op-Eds Letters Political Cartoons Faith » Featured Faiths Mormon Times LDS Church News Mission Reunions Faith Wire Family » Marriage &amp; Parenting Family Media Movie Guide Calendar TV Listings Family Life Wire Special Sections » Education Week LDS General Conference Mormons in America Olympics Outdoor Retailer Rugby Sports Picks Sundance Film Festival Utah Blaze Utah Grizzlies Download our Mobile Apps Print Subscription About us Contact us FAQ Feedback Jobs RSS E-Edition Privacy policy Terms of Use Legal notices Advertise with us Mobile Apps Advertise with us Report this ad
